---
title: "Update on Prayer for Samuel Sangon & Family"
date: 2015-05-26
author: William Butler
people: [Samuel Sangon]
storylines:
  - Salon's Death
---

Dear Friends,

Late this afternoon (Tuesday, May 26, PNG time) I received a call from a Waran man in Wewak town to let me know that they had found the body of Salon very late afternoon on Monday. She was found in the water very near where the children had been playing. Due to the lateness of the time, it wasn't possible for anyone in the village to hike to where they can make a cellphone connection and call us.

Though this event is still as tragic and painful as ever, there are some glimmers of mercy in today's news:

- Finding Salon's body at all is something to thank God for.
- Finding her body not much more than 24 hours after she disappeared is another reason to praise God.
- When I spoke to {{< person Samuel >}} on Monday morning he asked that we pray that they would find her close to the village. The thought that she might not have gone too far away seemed comforting to him. Since she was found very near where she drowned, I am sure will bring some measure of comfort to them.

Since we haven't heard directly from the village, we don't know exactly what has happened since the discovery. However, most likely there was mourning and wailing through the night. A canoe would have been dispatched either last night or early this morning to Samban village to pick up Samuel's mother who was there to watch over Samuel's son Caleb as he attended school. Caleb caught an earlier ride. When all the family had gathered and mourned, the burial would have taken place. Tonight there may also be some more mourning and wailing.

The healing can now begin.

Please continue to pray for Samuel, Delila, their children and extended family. There will still be difficult days ahead.

Thank you all so much for your prayers and notes of support and encouragement. Literally hundreds if not thousands are praying for us. The family of God is so wonderful. We couldn't survive without Him, or without you! You're the best!
