---
title: "Merry Christmas"
date: 2015-12-25
author: William Butler
storylines:
  - Furlough 2015
tags:
  - Christmas
---

Near the end of her life, one of my grandparents' neighbors told this story:

One day my grandpa came walking down the old railroad track that ran along the edge of his farm, just whistling away. This wasn't unusual but the neighbor thought his whistle that morning sounded different, and went out to see why. When grandpa came to the corner, she asked, "Bill, why the happy tune?" He replied with a big smile, "I'm going to have a grandson (me)!"

Have you ever thought about how Joseph felt about Jesus' impending arrival? The Bible does tell us that he wasn't thrilled with the initial news and he was prepared to respond as a man of his day would respond, at least as a compassionate man would. It took a talk with an angel and a better understanding of what was really going on for him to get his head on straight. We don't really know if it was smooth sailing for him after that or if there were periods of questions and doubt. But since he was a man God chose for his character, there surely came a point when he was able to walk the streets of Nazareth whistling a happy tune. When asked the reason for his happy tune, he would have replied with a big smile, "I'm going to have a son!"

God has said to us, "I have a son. I am very happy with him. He is your Peace, your Savior, your Friend, your Brother, and your Lord. Receive him!"

With the warm and rainy weather, this is feeling more like a PNG Christmas than what we were expecting for a Christmas in the US, but at least we know what to do on a warm and wet Christmas.

We trust that God has blessed you with a joyous celebration of Jesus' birth.
