---
title: "August 16, 2015"
date: 2015-08-16
author: William Butler
people: [William Butler, Robin Butler]
storylines:
  - Furlough 2015
tags:
  - Packing
---

The last couple of weeks we have reported on events from the heights. There will be none of that this week. We are back to the mundane, the all-to-frequent chore of sorting and packing up. With less than two weeks to go before we leave PNG for furlough, it simply must get done now. I have often said that the thing most likely to cause me to stop being a missionary is the packing and moving. You would think that with all our experience in this area, we'd be really good at it, but we are not!

It doesn't help that the last time we went on furlough, I was neck deep in the PBT's finance work right to the end. We ended up shoving several boxes of unsorted papers and other things into our storage area just because we had no time to do anything else with them. Unfortunately, much of this term has been just as busy and some of those boxes are still around. This time we simply must sort, throw away the junk, and only keep the things that are useful and worthwhile to store. If you've ever moved from one house to another, you know what we're talking about.

Since this isn't our activity of choice, we have to work really hard to be disciplined to get it done. There are always other things that are more interesting, more demanding, more "important," aren't there?

Actually, there are some things I would like to do on the Waran New Testament before we leave PNG. That is why we are trying desperately to complete the mundane tasks this week so that next week we can return to the something more satisfying and infinitely more enjoyable.

## Take Two

1. Pray that we will have the necessary focus and discipline to complete the packing up of the house and moving everything to storage this week.
2. Continue to pray for the 95 people who were baptized 4 weeks ago. Pray that they will remain strong in their faith and overcome all the obstacles that Satan throws into their path to distract them and cause them to stumble.
