---
title: "June 28, 2015"
date: 2015-06-28
author: William Butler
languages: [Waran]
people: [Samuel Sangon, Morex]
storylines:
  - Consultant Checking Romans
  - Consultant Checking Jude
---

Praise God! We finished the checking of Romans and Jude on Tuesday. Jude went much better than expected so we didn't need the time that the consultant had available on Wednesday. The {{< language Waran >}} team began Wednesday to go through the book and make correction at places that the consultant recommended changes or refinements be made. We had done all the easy corrections as we went through during the checking session, but some needed more concentrated thought to resolve and were set aside for later. Now that later had arrived we had no choice but to deal with them.

Making corrections of this sort is never easy. Often the reason that a correction is needed is because it is a difficult passage to express in Waran and our attempt proved to fall short of an acceptable standard. And there are often trickle down effects. A change in one verse affects something in the next verse too or maybe even a whole section. Things have gone slowly but we have made it through most of the corrections. We will have some time on Monday to finish off the work before the men fly back to the village on Tuesday. I think we'll all be well and truly ready for break after this intense session.

{{< person Morex >}} and his wife Betty will be going on the same flight.

## Take Two prayer points:

1. Praise God that both Romans and Jude have now been consultant checked and that required corrections are almost complete.

2. This evening {{< person Samuel >}} told me that he has been experiencing pain in one of his eyes when he reads by artificial light or works on the computer. We have a good eye clinic at the Madang Hospital so Monday morning (Sunday evening your time), we will make every effort to get him in to see an eye doctor before he goes back home. Pray that we will be able to get an appointment and that they can find a cause and provide some relief.
