---
title: "April 19, 2015"
date: 2015-04-19
author: William Butler
languages: [Waran, Tok Pisin]
people: [William Butler, Samuel Sangon]
storylines:
  - Consultant Checking
---

Sometimes you just have to scratch your head!

John 10:40 in the NIV version says, "Then Jesus went back across the Jordan to the place where John had been baptizing in the early days. There he stayed."

When {{< person Samuel >}} read aloud the {{< language Waran >}} version of that verse and one of the checkers gave a translation into the {{< language "Tok Pisin" >}} language, the consultant thought he heard something odd. He asked the checkers, "Who was baptizing?" I was surprised to hear them reply, "Jesus." However, a careful examination of Waran showed that they were right -- the baptizing had gotten connected to Jesus rather than John. How? Why? That is when you just scratch your head, revise the verse, and go on.

The Waran team has had a great week! We have finished the consultant check through chapter 14 and made the necessary revisions as we went along. Lord willing, we will complete the check on Wednesday.

After that we will try to read through the book together, just listening to the text in Waran, rather than dissecting and analyzing. We will be listening to hear words or phrases that don't fit together or places where the text just doesn't flow smoothly. We may also hear some places where small grammatical errors have been missed, like an "a" appearing where a "the" should be or an "s" being left off. Basically, we'll be looking for anything that will make the text sound odd or unpleasant to Waran ears.

## Take Two Prayer Points

1. Pray that we will be able to successfully complete the checking and revisions of John.
2. That the read-through of John will reveal any places when minor adjustments to the text need to be made.
