---
title: Little Things Matter
date: 2015-04-26
author: William Butler
languages: [Waran, Tok Pisin]
people: [William Butler, Samuel Sangon, Morex]
storylines:
  - Consultant Checking John
---

John 19:37 in the NIV reads:

> and, as another scripture says, "They will look on the one they have pierced."

The {{< language Waran >}} version translated back into English that had been provided to the consultant read:

> And another talk also remains like this, They will remain seeing the man who was penetrated by means of a spear.

That is what he expected to hear from the checker when he orally translated from Waran into the {{< language "Tok Pisin" >}}. Instead he heard:

> They remain seeing the man who penetrated him by means of a spear.

Just to be sure he had heard correctly the consultant asked a second checker and got the same back translation. He then asked us to revise the verse to get the right meaning. {{< person Samuel >}} pondered the verse a few minutes, then casually marked out one word. He then re-read the passage for the checkers and they immediately gave the correct meaning. Here's what the difference looks like in Waran:

> Eh re da wundu papmare garaka set, Da kayahare ~~da~~ manda ro dandak kokɨn manda epeme, ka set.

This served as an excellent example of one thing I have been emphasizing to the men during this session: It is important to check everything carefully because even little things can make a big difference, not only in meaning but also in whether the language sounds natural or "normal."

Praise God, the men will be able to return home with copies of the Gospel of John, checked, revised, and ready to declare the truth about Jesus to the Waran people.

## Take Two Prayer Points:

1. The Waran team is scheduled to return home on Tuesday, flying to Likan where we lived and traveling by canoe down to their home at Yar village. The plane is also scheduled to bring {{< person Morex >}}, Samuel's brother, into Madang for surgery to repair his pressure sores. Please pray that the plane will be able to fly as scheduled and that everyone reaches their destination safely.

2. Pray for the village leader from Longwik, one of the Waran villages. He was severely injured on Friday night while trying to stop some young men from destroying the village cocoa bean processing facility. They turned on him with knives. With MAF's help we were able to evacuate him to a hospital Saturday afternoon. We haven't had any updates since then but many stitches and possibly surgery would have been required.
