---
title: "June 14, 2015"
date: 2015-06-14
author: William Butler
languages: [Waran]
people: [Samuel Sangon, David Robinson, Konamby]
storylines:
  - Salon's Death
  - Consultant Checking Romans
---

{{< language Waran >}} checking is under way! Praise God that the men arrived as expected on Tuesday, the 9th. We were able to check 3 full days and checked Romans 1-5, except for the last 3 verses of chapter 5. This progress is actually ahead of where we need to be to complete the work in the time {{< person "David Robinson" >}} has left to work.

{{< person Samuel >}} arrived looking exhausted and unwell. He told me that since Salon died, he had hardly slept at all. By the end of Wednesday, a malaria attack surfaced. He recognized it right away and we got medicine for him immediately. By Thursday morning he was well on the way to recovery. In light of his health, the progress we have made borders on miraculous. We'll take it as a gracious gift from God! At the end of each day we would like to be able to correct or revise any problems we find in the text that day but we have not been able to do that for the first three chapters while Samuel rested and recovered, but we are otherwise very pleased with progress.

The other men on the team -- {{< person Konamby >}}, Paul, and David -- are doing well in orally telling the consultant what the Waran text means and answering his questions. They work together -- one may start the verse and another finishes. That doesn't always happen. So we thank God for this cooperative spirit.

## Take Two

1. Praise God for the team's arrival and great progress so far. Please pray that we can continue to progress through about 40 verses a day and stay up with daily corrections.

2. Please pray for the well-being of the men while they are in town and their families back in the village. Pray that families will be well, will have sufficient food, and will have the support of the community while their husbands are away.
