---
title: "April 12, 2015"
date: 2015-04-12
languages: [Waran]
author: William Butler
storylines:
  - Consultant Checking John
---

The Waran translation team arrived as expected on Wednesday and the consultant checking of John's Gospel got underway
on Thursday. By Friday afternoon we have completed checking 1:1-4:42. In order for the consultant to complete the work
within the days he has available, we need to check about 80 verses a day. So far we are almost on target.

Once the consultant session ends for the day, then the Waran team goes over any verses where problems have surfaced and
revises them to make sure the meaning is correct. The next morning the consultant checks these verses again.

Many people commented that they really liked the Waran verses we shared in our Easter message. Here are some more
familiar verses, Waran style:

> Big Father (has) very one Son. But, he remains loving very (much) all this ground’s women men. Therefore, he sent
> that one Son for them [for their benefit]. Because he did like that, women men who give stomach to [[KT][^1]: believe
> in] him will not finish/end. Doing that, they will get the breath that will just do very, very good and will remain
> long [KT: eternal life]. And Big Father did not send his Son to the ground in order that he must judge women men and
> they will become bad [be punished], no. He sent him to the ground in order that he must get back [KT: save] women men
> again and put them good-good [in a good state].
>
> – John 3:16-17

[^1]: A *Key Term* is an important Biblical concept to which we must translate carefully and consistently.

Take Two prayer points:
1. Thank God for the safe arrival of the Waran team: Samuel Sangon, Konamby Gos, Paul Petkang, and Moses Kaiyap. Pray that the consultant checking process will bring to light any places where correction or improvement of the Waran text is needed.
2. Pray that we can find a way for Samuel's brother Morex, who is a paraplegic, to get to the Madang Hospital. He needs surgical repair of pressure sores but there was no space for him and his caregiver on the plane that brought the team in.
