---
title: "June 7, 2015"
date: 2015-06-07
author: William Butler
languages: [Waran, Tok Pisin, Mborena Kam]
people: [Samuel Sangon, David Robinson]
storylines:
  - Mborena Kam Translation
  - Consultant Checking Romans
---

{{< person Samuel >}} and the {{< language Waran >}} checking team were not able to come in on the flight on Friday, June 5th, as we had hoped. We didn't have contact with anyone from Yar village until Thursday morning when Samuel called. He wanted to let me know the team was ready to come in for the checking session. I told him of Friday's flight but making that that would have meant he would have had to immediately pack up and head up to the airstrip at Likan and it just wasn't physically possible. I understood but was disappointed because we had no other options for flights in process. I told Samuel I'd look into it without knowing where I could look.

However, since God seems to be at work all through this, he did. Our colleagues, the Haywards, had a flight booked to take them from Madang to their village Tuesday June 9th, with the airplane flying back empty. It is only a short flight from their airstrip to Likan. When we asked the flight provider if they could extend the flight to include a landing at Likan, they agreed. Saturday morning Samuel called to check in and I was able to let him know the new plan. As of now, Samuel and the team will travel to Likan on Monday and fly to Madang mid-day on Tuesday. We will start checking on Wednesday, June 10th.

At the end of our Saturday conversation, Samuel told me that he and the team were happy to come in for the session. He also said that his wife and extended family were "wanbel" with the decision. "Wanbel" means to be of one heart and mind with others, to be in complete agreement. I was very glad to hear that. I do want the checking session to go ahead, but not at the risk of Samuel's relationship with his family or his reputation in the village.

## Take Two Prayer Points

1. Praise God that the Waran team is able to come for the checking session, for their willingness and for the available flight. Pray that the flight would come about as expected.

2. Pray that the checking session will get off to a good start and will proceed smoothly. We have 11 days available for checking Romans, less time than we'd like but not an impossible task. The consultant and I have been meeting this past week to discuss some of exegetical issues in Romans so we won't have to have those discussions once the men are here. That should enable the sessions to move along more quickly. Still it will be a challenging time for all of us.

## Mysterious Ways

When {{< person "David Robinson" >}} tried to change his tickets so that his time in PNG would coincide more closely with when the Waran team could be in Madang, he found that was going to be a horribly expensive proposition. As a result, he travelled on his original schedule. He would be here at least a week before the Waran team arrived. We knew we could redeem some of that time but God had a greater purpose in mind. During his time in PNG and for several summers afterwards, David worked with the {{< language "Mborena Kam" >}} translation team as an exegetical consultant. The Mborena Kam are in the process of doing final checking and preparing their New Testament for publication. This week the team had a crisis when the stresses and strains of that process threatened to blow the team apart. Since David was here and "free," he was able to be part of the team to help the Mborena Kam through this crisis. If he hadn't been here or free... But God made sure that he was both!
