---
title: "July 19, 2015"
date: 2015-07-19
author: Robin Butler
people: [Bethaney Butler, William Butler]
places: [Likan]
storylines:
  - 2015 Interns
  - Churches of Christ Convention 2015
tags:
  - Plane Day
---

Tuesday July 14th was a typical plane day. Rush, rush, rush. We were expecting two planes to get everyone where they needed to be. I became the designated driver to free up {{< person Bethaney >}} to do other things before the second plane which she was to be on. {{< person William >}} and I loaded up the cargo and two other passengers and headed for the airport. The plane was waiting on us when we got there. William told the pilot the weight we had and surprisingly said all of it could go. The plane was loaded and off they went. I went back to the PBT office.

The second plane had another flight to do before taking the rest of the group and cargo to Likan. When it was time we load things up and headed out.  Another big praise came when the pilot said that he could take all the cargo that they had too. Many times in the past weather or other things has prevented the plane for taking a full load causing us to have to leave things behind.

I have not heard from the group since they arrived in Likan. Our radio is not working and cell phone reception is very poor. I cannot call them but have to wait until they call me. I don't expect to hear from them until they get back to Likan after the convention which would be Monday July 20th.

## Take Two Prayer Points:

1. Pray that the convention has been an encouragement to the church and God's people. Pray that they will use what they have learned to walk closer to Him.

2. Pray that the rest of their time in the village will go well. Pray the interns will have a good experience and they will allow God to use this time to speak to them. Pray for Bethaney and Michelle as they lead the interns and encourage them to be with the people even though they cannot communicate very well. Pray that William will be able to do the village check on the book of James as planned.

Thank you for taking time to come before the Lord on our behalf. May God bless your week.
