---
title: "My word will not return to me empty."
date: 2015-05-03
author: William Butler
languages: [Waran, Tok Pisin]
people: [William Butler, Samuel Sangon, Morex, Konamby]
storylines:
  - Consultant Checking John
  - Likan Airstrip Maintenance
---

The {{< language Waran >}} checking team returned home on Tuesday and {{< person Morex >}}, {{< person Samuel >}}'s brother, returned on the flight. He is now in the hospital awaiting surgery, perhaps this week.

{{< person Konamby >}} was one of the checking team. He is a pastor who has often been involved in several checking sessions so he has heard much of the Waran New Testament already. He also has copies of most of the books we have completed so far. Last year he lost an adult son. I expected him to be somewhat subdued during the session because of his son's death, but he seemed to be energized as the gospel unfolded. He was eager to orally translate the Waran text into the{{< language "Tok Pisin" >}} language so that the consultant could understand what the Waran was saying. Even though there were two others who were there to help, he took most of the verses himself. He did a great job, too -- much better than the last time he helped. It is obvious that he has been spending time with the Word in Waran.

At the end of the checking of John, each of the participants received a copy of the revised and approved text. When I gave Konamby his copy he had a great smile on his face. I told him he could now read this in church and preach from it. His smile got bigger as he said, "Yes, we will do that."

God has said that the words of his mouth will not return to him empty, but will accomplish what he desires and will achieve the purpose for which he sent them out (Is 55:11). That is the reality for Konamby and is our prayer and hope for the Waran people.

We have another checking session scheduled in June. We hope that Konamby will return for that session too.

## Project Update

In our [first Take Two]({{< relref "posts/2015/2015-04-05-returning.md" >}}) we mentioned two projects. One of them was a tractor for the airstrip at Likan. Apparently the national government has determined that keeping airstrips in outlying areas is important and has allocated some funds for maintenance. During April a representative of the government surveyed key airstrips in our area. Afterwards I received a call telling me that the Member of Parliament for our area would like to fund a tractor and a grass cutter for the Likan airstrip! This is an unexpected development!

## Take Two Prayer Points:

1. After gathering materials for several months, Samuel is using this month to build a new home for his family. This will require a lot of hard work plus support from his family and neighbors. Pray that the project will go well and others will help.

2. This week I will be sending in the quote for a tractor and grass cutter for the Member's consideration. Please pray that he will look with favor on the quote and will follow through on a promise made in his name.
