---
title: "June 21, 2015"
date: 2015-06-21
author: William Butler
languages: [Waran]
people: [Samuel Sangon, Morex, Leo Wangamu]
storylines:
  - Consultant Checking Romans
---

The {{< language Waran >}} team has had a fruitful week. We steadily moved through the verses of Romans, to arrive at 14:19 where we will start checking again on Monday morning. Lord willing, we will be able to complete Romans on Tuesday. Seeing that we were progressing well, our consultant has prepared to check Jude when we finish Romans. Considering our late start, this is an unexpected bonus.

Another praise item this week: {{< person Morex >}} has been declared healed and technically released from the hospital. Since we have nowhere for him to go until the next flight out to the Waran area, he has been allowed to remain in the hospital ward until that time.

Take Two Prayer Points:

1. Praise God for the excellent progress. Pray that it might continue so that we will be able to complete Romans and Jude.

2. Pray for {{< person "Leo Wangamu" >}}, a man from Yar village, who has served many years as a member of the PNG Police. On Saturday he was shot in the back with a shotgun and severely injured. He was evacuated to Wewak Hospital and there were plans to evacuate him to Port Moresby today if he was strong enough to make the trip. We haven't had any update today so we don't know whether that happened or not. Please pray that he will survive and recover well.

Note: Everyone in a village knows everyone else, and many are related in one way or another. Leo is in {{< person Samuel >}} and Morex's extended family. Everyone on the Waran team has been affected by this tragic event. They have chosen to remain in Madang for now because they want to see this work completed. However, concern for Leo will be greatly on their minds.
