Take Two - Week of November 6, 2016

My week began right after we sent out last week's Take Two. Our proposed
ministry budget for 2017 was due at 8:00 AM Monday morning but because
of the intensity of our schedule the last few weeks, I hadn't finished
it. It also doesn't help that I tend to procrastinate on tasks I don't
like to do! So, I worked through the night, thinking through the coming
year and pulling together numbers. I finished at 5:00 and crashed until
6:30. That sort of set the tone for the day!

Monday the Waran team returned home. The flight was scheduled for late
morning because MAF had two flights to do before ours. However, bad
weather can cause schedules and flight plans to change very quickly.
When it began to rain in the pre-dawn hours of Monday, all these
thoughts flashed through my head and I knew we had better be ready for
anything. So shortly after 7:00, I picked the Waran men up from the dorm
and brought them to the office so they could finish their preparations
for leaving. I scurried around getting things together too. As it turned
out, there was no drama and the plane left Madang with the team about
11:30. The only real effect was that we couldn't get as much on the
plane as normal---the pilot had to take on more fuel to give him options
to fly around storms he might encounter. None of the things I scurried
to gather up ever actually made it on the plane. Oh well, next trip.
(Around 5 PM Samuel called to say that they were nearly home so there
had been no drama on the river portion of the trip either.)

After the plane left, Max and I returned to town. Max planned to leave
when his travelling companions finished their work in town and were
ready to return so he was taking it one day at a time. While waiting, he
would continue working on the literacy materials.

About 2:00 I returned to the airport to pick up two Waran patients and
their guardians who had come in on the return leg of the flight. On the
trip back to town, we were flagged down by Kevin, a Waran man who was a
former village leader from our area. He is a relative of one of the
patients so he hopped in to accompany us to the hospital. The patients
were delivered Outpatients -- kind of like an emergency room for
non-critical patients. Since Kevin seems to know lots of people and can
be a very persuasive talker, I left him to shepherd the patients through
the process. I figured he had a better chance of getting them treated
than I did.

About 5:30 Kevin called to say that he had to go home. Unrest along the
roads toward where he lives has caused the public transportation to stop
running before dark out that way. The patients had still not been
admitted. I went back to the hospital to see if I could help. One
patient, Paketo, was in the process of being admitted to the surgical
ward but was still in Outpatients. The other patient, Patrick, told me
they were going to let him stay overnight but weren't going to admit
him. I about went through the roof. His symptoms were similar enough to
Konamby's that I thought he might also have TB. But he also had these
attacks with intense cramp-like symptoms in his legs. If an adult male
Papua New Guinean cries out in pain you know he experiencing serious
pain. Nevertheless, I couldn't make any headway with the doctor. At
least, he was being given pain meds. About 9 PM they finally came to get
Paketo and take him to the surgical ward. After we got him settled in
there, there was nothing else beneficial for me to do, so I went home to
crash.

Tuesday Max and I started working on the literacy materials again. We
checked through the 20+ books that Max has translated and typed in while
he has been in town. Unfortunately, a couple had been typed in but had
not been saved properly. Max still had the handwritten copies so we can
get them typed. Max looked through the materials that have been
developed as a guide to developing the curriculum and figured out what
he needed to take back to the village with him to work on while there.
He is as motivated as I have ever seen him so I think he is very sincere
about picking up the literacy work again.

Midday on Tuesday, Patrick called me to ask for a ride to Kevin's house.
He was being discharged and had decided not to argue with them anymore.
He would leave the hospital, take the meds they had given him and return
in a week when the meds ran out. I wasn't happy that he wasn't admitted
but if he follows their instructions then he improves his position when
he returns because he can say, "I did what you said and it didn't help."
Or maybe, by some miracle, the meds will work. Only God knows.

While at the hospital I also checked in on Paketo. He is scheduled for
surgery on Monday. I found out today that his surgery is marginal. He
has already been given blood but he is still anemic so they may have to
postpone surgery to try to build up his blood. This is a common
occurrence in PNG.

Max and I worked together all day Wednesday and he left on Thursday. He
called me this evening just to let me know he had made it safely.

A former colleague once recapped his year like this, "This year I found
out why we have to turn in yearly plans...so we have something to do
when the interruptions stop!" It hasn't been quite that bad this week.
But a lot of the week's activities fell under general ministry when I
really wanted to focus on translation and literacy. But I think Jesus
kind of had that "problem" too. At least I got two full days on
translation and literacy.

The best news this week is that Robin has improved a great deal. No
pains, no episodes. She has begun to return to her normal routines and
work. We are very thankful for that.

Take Two Prayer Points

-   Praise God that Robin is feeling significantly better, though she
    isn't 100% yet. Her recovery helps us both a lot.

-   Pray for healing for the two Waran patients. Pray that Paketo will
    be able to have the surgery as scheduled on Monday and begin the
    recovery process well. Pray that Patrick will have relief from pain
    and begin to heal also. If not, we will need more wisdom to know how
    to get more attention paid to his case at the hospital.

Thank you for your prayers.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*Take Two is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
