Take Two - November 13, 2016

By the time we got to the end of the week, I was feeling pretty
disappointed about what I had gotten done during the week. Things
started going off plan on Tuesday. We started the day with a rise and
shine at 5:00 AM to take a colleague to airport for the early flight.
She was on her way to her mother's funeral.

Just after we returned home I received a call from Morex, Samuel's
brother who is a paraplegic. He was having problems with the site on his
hip that had been surgically repaired in March. He had been in his
wife's home village where his kids go to school when this came up.
Another missionary had arranged to get him to the hospital in Wewak but
the hospital was not willing to admit him due to lack of space. He asked
for help to get to Madang. I thought about it and prayed about it and,
by late morning, had decided it was the right thing to do to help him
again. I went to buy tickets for him and his wife.

Just as the purchase was being finalized, Robin came to tell me that I
needed to make a trip up the coast to the "town" of Bogia. One of the
national translators for the Aruamu had been unable to catch any public
transportation in time to get to town by the end of the day. He was
scheduled to fly to the capital city at 7.10 AM Tuesday for a critical
visa appointment at the American Embassy. Someone needed to go get him.
The only other person available was our Director and he was already
scheduled to be out of the office Tuesday-Friday so I was the logical
choice. Besides I like road trips and had already volunteered to make
the trip if it proved necessary.

So after gathering up all the things one needs to have when on the road
here, I set off with another Aruamu translator (in case we had to go
looking for the missing person) and our Waran son, Kenny, and two of his
friends (always good to have a few friendlies along in case of trouble).
We left at 1:15. Three hours and 116 miles later we were in Bogia. Most
of the road had a lot of holes and rough spots.

We quickly found the man, bought soft drinks and dry crackers at the
local store, and started back. It took 4 hours to come back because
darkness fell and the last 20 miles or so were in a heavy downpour.

At 6.00 AM Wednesday I took our Director and the two Aruamu translators
to catch the early flight to the capital. That was okay because the
flight that picked them up was also bringing Morex and Betty to town. So
I picked them up and took them to Outpatients at the hospital. They
hadn't eaten very much the last couple of days so I left them there and
came home to fix them some food. By the time I got back Morex had been
given a bed in Outpatients and was waiting for the doctor. I also
checked in on Paketo who had successful surgery on Monday morning. He
was doing okay.

By late afternoon, I hadn't heard anything from Morex so I called him.
They were still waiting but Morex said he would text when they moved to
a Ward. I didn't hear anything till the next morning. He thought that
texting me at 11:45 PM when they finally got to the Ward was a little
too late! Over 16 hours to get a bed in the Ward, but at least he was
admitted.

The rest of the week was a lot about the patients, checking in with
them, encouraging them, and making sure that they were getting what they
needed to actually get better while on the hospital. We are also caring
for Patrick who is staying with a relative while taking his prescribed
meds. Tomorrow we will be taking him back to the doctor and also taking
him for a TB test. I found that the TB clinic would test him without an
order from a doctor if I just brought him in. So we'll do that and
either find out a cause or rule out one possible cause.

As I said earlier I was feeling disappointed about the lack of
significant progress on primary tasks this week, but when I thought
about it, I realized that Jesus must have had days/weeks like that, too.
He came for a "spiritual purpose," to preach and teach to Kingdom of God
and train those who were to follow-up on that mission. Yet he was often
swamped by people who wanted healing. He healed them because they needed
it and he could do it. It may not have been his primary task but it
wasn't against his mission and it opened people's minds and hearts to
receive his message because he had met a felt need. They had seen the
gospel of love in action. But I am well aware that Jesus also withdrew
from the crowds from time to time to focus on the primary task. I'll be
trying to do that this week. At least after I get Patrick back to the
doctor and TB clinic tomorrow!

On a lighter note:

After my trip on Tuesday, I am proposing a new medical condition:
"shaken man syndrome." This is the likely result of making a long but
fast trip on rough roads. Some effects are immediate, like weariness and
fuzzy thinking, but other trickle-down effects like sore joints and
muscles and back/neck pains may show up over the next 3-4 days! But
given time, they all will go away on their own.

Prayer Points:

-   Pray for all three patients: that **Paketo** will heal from his
    surgery, that **Morex** will receive appropriate treatment including
    surgery if necessary, and that **Patrick** will be examined
    thoroughly and the root cause of his distress will be uncovered.

-   Pray for the Mborena Kam (bore-eh-nah ) team. The typesetting of
    their New Testament has begun. At the end of this week the full team
    will be coming into town for what they hope will be the final
    session to clear up for questions about some of the epistles. This
    team is weary from many weeks of hard work and significant attacks
    during this final process. Please join us in lifting them up.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*Take Two is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
