Take Two - Week of November 20, 2016

This week I was able to make significant progress on my review of 2
Corinthians. We translated this book in 2005 so there is quite a bit of
updating to do. So far I haven't found anything that is wrong, but there
are better ways to say it. Mostly I am just making notes that Samuel and
I can discuss.

I received a call from a man named Brown in Yar village on Wednesday. He
told me that Samuel had been trying to get through to me but the network
wasn't cooperating. I passed on that I hadn't been successful in working
anything out to get Samuel to Madang other than a charter flight---an
expensive option. Brown mentioned that he was making a fuel run to Wewak
this weekend and that Samuel was welcome to accompany him then fly
commercially from there to Madang. I left it with Brown to talk it over
with Samuel. I haven't heard from Samuel so I don't know yet if he is
coming or not. If they followed through with the trip, I will probably
hear from Samuel sometime on Monday.

As Thanksgiving approaches, I've begun to think about this question:
What am I thankful for? There is a lot, so I won't be able to give you
the whole list. Here are three of the biggies:

-   **Waran New Testament Completion** --- We are very thankful that we
    are nearing the end of the process with the Waran New Testament. It
    seems impossible but probable that at this time next year I will be
    writing about typesetting the book!

-   **Family** --- We are also thankful for strong family ties; parents
    who grounded us well in the Lord and prepared us for life's ups and
    downs, three of whom still live; children of whom we are very proud.

-   **Robin** --- She's at the top of my earthly list. She is essential
    to what happens every week, month after month, year after year. She
    has her own role in PBT as the person responsible for getting the
    paperwork required for each of us to get into PNG and legally remain
    here. In that role, she is an expert. And the nuttiest thing is, she
    loves it! All those forms, ugh! And she is an essential part of the
    administrative team for PBT, bringing experience and wisdom to bear
    on whatever the task is.\
    All that is outstanding. But that is not why she is at the top of my
    list. She is there because she knows the meaning of commitment and
    lives it every day. She loves God so much that she has committed
    herself to a life that is uncomfortable, frustrating, and far from
    family for the sake of the kingdom. Her burdens are unbearable at
    times but she bears them anyway. She is also committed to me and to
    our shared vision. She loves me and argues with me until I get it
    right. She keeps challenging me and propelling me forward. Don't
    ever think that because her name doesn't appear here very often, she
    isn't doing anything. She is in every story from start to long after
    the finish. In short, I wouldn't be who I am today and I wouldn't be
    here without her. For that, I am forever grateful. Thank you, God.

I don't really need to tell you Who is on the very top of my list, do I?

Prayer Points:

1.  Paketo, who had surgery, was released on Friday. He still has
    healing to do. Morex is still in the hospital where they are working
    to get the sore to heal up. Patrick is still taking the prescribed
    med but with little effect. He has agreed to be test for TB on
    Monday.

2.  Pray for Samuel's journey and for good connection to get to Madang.

Take some time this week to think about what you are thankful for. What
has God given you that you can't live without? I encourage you to think
about the people who have impacted or are impacting your life in
positive ways and thank God for them.

May you have a blessed Thanksgiving,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*Take Two is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
