Take Two -- Week of November 27, 2016

Not long after we sent out last week's Take Two (late Sunday evening PNG
time) we received a call from Samuel. He was in Angoram, the small town
along the banks of the Sepik River where the river portion of his
journey ends. He had just arrived. Through it was getting close to
midnight, he said he was trying to get on to the coastal town of Wewak
yet that night. Then he would be ready to fly to Madang on Tuesday.

I didn't hear from him again until mid-afternoon on Monday. He had just
arrived in Wewak. Thought they had started out from Angoram at 1:00 AM,
it was raining heavily along the road. This made the trip first
treacherous then impossible as the deep potholes filled up with water
turning them into quagmires. Navigating them at night was impossible.
They just had to sit and wait for daylight. Even in daylight it still
took 6-7 hours to navigate the 60 miles to Wewak, with a lot of shoving
and pulling of vehicles involved.

Samuel wasn't up to getting up to be at the airport at 4:00 AM on
Tuesday morning, so he rest in Wewak and came on Wednesday. We are
currently working through 2 Corinthians to resolve problems and update
the text.

Wednesday afternoon Max arrived at the office! This was quite a shock
but a pleasant one. He is here to continue working on the E1 curriculum.

Both Max and Samuel had difficulty communicating because the cell towers
that serve the area are currently down completely or only working part
time. These towers are in remote locations so we don't know when they
might be repaired.

Robin has had plenty to do this week as she fills in in Logistics while
our daughter Bethaney, our Administrator of Logistics is in the US.
Specifically, she has been working with a new team who at the end of
last week returned from their first stay in the language area where they
felt God was calling them. Their stay confirmed for them that God is
indeed leading them to work there. They are now making plans to get a
house built. This location is accessible only by helicopter (okay, you
can also get there by walking a few days!). Robin has been communicating
with the helicopter pilot to find out details about what the helicopter
can carry. For example, sheets of roofing iron 8 feet long and 2.5 feet
wide CAN be carried. For each trip the maximum the helicopter can carry
is about 990 pounds. Then decisions had to be made about where the
helicopter could pick up the materials. The closer the materials are to
the destination, the cheaper the cost of flying them. They located the
closest road, but this week confirmed that the wet season has arrived,
so the road to the closest point is not likely to passable in two weeks'
time when the helicopter is available. There are many other details that
must be worked out, but I think you get the picture. This coming week
will, no doubt, continue the process.

We certainly had a lot to be thankful for on Thanksgiving, not the least
of which was Samuel and Max's arrival in Madang.

Take Two Prayer Points:

-   Praise God for Samuel and Max's safe arrival in Madang. Pray that
    all of us can work together well to accomplish much in the days we
    have.

-   Pray for Robin as she assists our colleagues to sort through all the
    details of the helicopter flights.

Update on Patients:

1.  Konamby is not in town but Samuel reported on his condition. Earlier
    I reported that Konamby could walk around while holding on to walls.
    This time Samuel demonstrated and it was more like a shuffle with
    Konamby facing the wall and moving his leg to the side from the hip
    joint. However, now he puts his grandchildren in the wheelchair and
    walks along behind the chair pushing them. Samuel confirmed that he
    can now move his knee joints and propel his lower leg forward. He
    just can't take big steps yet. But he is making progress so let's
    thank God.

2.  Paketo was supposed to have a medical review this week but that
    didn't happen as expected. He is continuing to heal well from the
    surgery.

3.  Morex, the paraplegic who had the bedsores, is all healed now. He
    has technically been released from the hospital but they are
    allowing him to remain there until we can get a flight arranged.

4.  Patrick is still a concern. We took him to the TB clinic but they
    would not test him unless a medical doctor confirmed that he needed
    to be tested for TB. Even though I had previously been told they
    would test him. He will go in for a formal review tomorrow so maybe
    we can convince the doctor to at least test him and rule that out.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*Take Two is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
