**Take Two -- Week of December 11, 2016**

Monday was a crazy day, in large part because it was a plane day. I was
up very early to go over some final verses I wanted Samuel to look over
before he left. At 7:30 I left the office to pick up Paketo and bring
him to the hospital so that his stitches could be taken out. After
dropping him and his wife off there, I returned to the office to gather
up the supplies that were going out on the first flight to Tamo. I also
had a bit of time to talk to and make plans with Samuel, who was now at
the office and still working. When Paketo was finished at the hospital,
I picked them up and we headed straight to the airport. The plane
arrived earlier than expected so the pilots were waiting on us when we
arrived. Everything was loaded quickly and off they went!

I now had two hours to get ready for the second flight. First stop was
the hospital to pick up Morex and Betty, then on to the office to weigh
up. Samuel was also on this flight so we went back to the dorm to pick
up his cargo. We really wanted to send out fresh vegetables for our
missionary friends who live in Samban. But as the cargo was all
collected, I thought we were going to be overweight but by some miracle
it all fitted into the limited allowance. The plane arrived while we
were on the way to the airport so we hurriedly put things in the plane
and again they were off!

So at about 2:30, I drove back to the office, glad that everyone was off
and my day was effectively over. Then I had lunch! I'm glad we don't
have too many plane days anymore.

I spent the rest of the week finishing up the work that Samuel and I had
been doing and working with Max, who was still waiting on his ride back
home. His travelling companions finally left on Thursday. Max
accomplished a considerable amount of the preliminary work necessary to
producing the Elementary 1 curriculum but there is still many weeks of
work still ahead.

On Friday, all Robin's work to prepare for the helicopter paid off and
the plans went off without a hitch. But since PNG is the "land of the
unexpected" there had to be a wrinkle of some sort. On Thursday
afternoon, the flight time was changed from mid-morning to early
morning. But because everything was ready for the flight and because the
support team had been fully oriented, this was not a problem. The team
stepped up and got the materials to the hangar on time. This facilitated
the pilot accomplishing the flights PBT needed as well as all that he
needed to do the rest of the day.

Patrick is still in the hospital and still without a clear diagnosis but
the doctor thinks they are making progress, albeit slowly.

**Take Two Prayer Points:**

-   Continue to pray for Patrick's healing.

-   Pray for wisdom for us as we make plans for 2017. It promises to be
    a great year for us but careful planning is necessary to fit in all
    the final checking that needs to be done before we declare the Waran
    New Testament ready for publication.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*Take Two is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
