Take Two -- December 25, 2016

The Innkeeper in Us

Today we are full of happiness and joy at the coming of Jesus into our
world. We sing, we worship, we praise, we pray prayers of thanksgiving.
We are overjoyed to journey with the shepherds to see the miracle child
whose birth announcement was delivered by an angel and celebrated by a
choir of angels. We are happy to present him the very best we have to
offer, as did the Wise Men. We accept with open arms the child who came
to save us from darkness, confusion, hopelessness, and desire.  It is
absolutely wonderful that we take this day to do that!

But what about tomorrow, or the next day, or next week, or through the
new year? Will we be welcoming shepherds and giving Wise Men then? If we
are honest with ourselves, there's a bit of the innkeeper in all of us.
We live in the tension between beings shepherds and wise men and being
innkeepers who have no room. More often than we like we fill our lives
with the trash of this world and there is simply no room left for Jesus.
Perhaps Christmas can help us realize how little room we have left for
Jesus. Then we can throw the junk in our lives out with the wrapping
paper. Let it go! Focus instead on the precious gift given to us!
Emanuel -- God with us -- stepping from heaven into our world so that he
could tell the truth about God and demonstrate it right before our eyes.
What a man! What a God!

Blessings on you and your family as you remember and celebrate his
birth!

William and Robin

*Disclaimer:*

*As a student of Scripture I must point out that the Bible never
actually mentions an innkeeper who turned away Joseph and Mary. Luke
only tells us about the inn that was filled to capacity when Joseph and
Mary arrived. And he only does that in order to explain why Jesus' first
bed was a manger: "She gave birth to her firstborn, a son. She wrapped
him in cloths and placed him in a manger, because there was no room for
them in the inn." (Luke 2:7 - NIV).*

Prayer Points

-   Pray for the Waran team, now and throughout the coming year. We know
    we will be under attack. We need fervent, consistent prayer from
    righteous men and women to protect us, encourage us, and strengthen
    us to see the Waran New Testament through to completion.

-   Pray for the family of Alius Simitab, a Papua New Guinean who was
    the main translator of the New Testament in the Coastal Arapesh
    language. He was a student of mine in the National Translator's
    Course many years ago. When I saw him last year he told me of the
    advancement of the kingdom and victories that were being won among
    the Arapesh people. He told me: "People today speak with great pride
    about how many cocoa trees they have and how well they are doing.
    Well, I have about 3,000 trees in my garden. I take care of them,
    give them what they need, prune them, and encourage them to produce
    fruit. My trees are my people and their fruit is the kingdom of
    God."\
    Aluis was unexpectedly found dead at his home this week. Pray for
    his family and for the Coastal Areapesh who have lost a great leader
    and one who cared for their souls. Such men are few in number.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*Take Two is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
