Take Two - Week of December 4, 2016

Robin has been up to her eyeballs this week in her role as stand-in for
Bethaney in Logistics. Almost everything has to do with the helicopter
scheduling. The new team needs to send some materials out so that the
villagers can build a temporary house for them. That flight has now been
fitted into the helicopter schedule for Friday this week. Since few of
PBT's current personnel have experience with what it means to have a
team located in a place accessible only by helicopter, Robin has been
working with the team to raise their awareness. She had also coordinated
meetings to make critical decisions about moving materials and to help
organize the day of the helicopter\--who's doing what where---so that
everything can go like clockwork. At this point most pieces are in
place.

What I really wanted to do this week was to spend all day every day
working uninterrupted with Samuel. I know that was an unrealistic goal
that was never going to happen! This is the land of the unexpected,
after all! Monday I took Patrick to the hospital for his clinical
review. It took a very long time but in the end I was very pleased. The
doctor gave him a serious going-over and located a pocket of some fluid
on his back between the skin and the spine that he wanted to investigate
further. He approved Patrick for admission but there wasn't a bed
available until Wednesday, so I took Patrick back in then and he was
admitted.  So far there are no results but at least he is in the
hospital and being carefully evaluated---after a full month of waiting.

Samuel and I did make good progress, completing our checks and revisions
up through chapter 8. We wanted to finish the entire book but we knew
that was probably not going to happen. As it turns out, due to the
limited availability of flights, Samuel will be flying out on Monday.
He, his brother Morex, and Morex's wife Betty will all fly to Samban,
where Betty is from. Samuel's oldest son Caleb is enrolled in school
there along with Morex's children. They will wait till the end of school
then all travel home to Yar Village by river for Christmas.

Paketo and his wife will return home on Monday too on a separate flight.
That will leave only Patrick and his guardian in town.

This whole last month I kept wanting less patients, but what I really
needed was more patience. The frustrations were many but the results are
good. Morex and Paketo are going home healed and Patrick is finally
getting the help he needs under the care of a doctor who is thorough and
conscientious. Praise God for that.

-   Praise God for healing and for progress on the translation.

-   Probably most of you know that I am from East Tennessee, very near
    Gatlinburg. This has been a hard week for me because of that. Pray
    for the suffering people of the Gatlinburg area. Pray that those who
    are going through this as believers will continue to lean on God and
    to let their light shine for those who are stumbling around in the
    darkness of immense loss trying to find their way forward without
    hope on Christ and the fellowship of the believers. This has to be
    staggering for anyone but absolutely crushing for them.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*Take Two is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
