---
title: September 11, 2016
date: 2016-09-11
author: William Butler
---

The Waran team had another good week. The consultant checking session on 1 Corinthians moved forward at a good pace. We
averaged checking almost 49 verses a day, up from 42 per day the first week. A total of 363 of the 545 verses scheduled
for this session have now been completed. Only 182 verses remain -- 74 in 1 Corinthians and 108 in James.

On Wednesday the consultant did not work with us so that Samuel and I could tackle some of the revisions that needed to
be made on the earlier chapters. We had some difficult problems to overcome and we didn't want to get too far behind.
However, we didn't really have enough time to completely catch up so we are still a little behind. However, the checking
session should finish earlier than scheduled so we will have some time to catch up at the end. Then the consultant can
review those changes with us before he leaves.

We have some important decisions that we are going to have to make, if not this time, then soon. For example, the usual
way the Waran people refer to the church is "God's people" or "those who believe." Those designations work pretty well
in their cultural context, where you either believe in God and Christ or you don't. There is no need for a more
distinctive and exclusive term.

However, in the context of the New Testament, each seems to be inadequate. Specifically, the Jews would argue strongly
that they too were "God's people" and "those who believe." Each time we have come to the word "church" we have struggled
to come up with that special word or phrase that would clearly define the church, but exclude all others. What we have
now is half a dozen phrases, each of which is adequate in the context of the verse where they appear. However, we need a
unique phrase that we will use any time a New Testament writer uses the word "church." Only then will it be possible for
Waran people to identify all the verses in the New Testament where "church" occurs and learn what is said about it. It
isn't a small matter.

Prayer Points:

1. Pray that the checking sessions and revisions continue to go well.
2. Pray for wisdom for the whole team as we tackle some of these vocabulary issues and move toward decisions on
   terminology. My God grant us the wisdom to choose well.

Thank you for standing with us in prayer.

Blessings,

William and Robin
