---
title: August 14, 2016
date: 2016-08-14
author: William Butler
storylines:
  - kenny-tb
---

This was not a very exciting week. Mostly it was just a lot of hard work, with days that were too long and nights that
were too short. Even keeping my nose to the grindstone did not make it possible for me to reach the goal of having the
back-translation of 1 Corinthians done. However, I did complete through chapter 14. It isn't the end of the world that I
didn't get it done. It just means that I will have another week like this in the near future.

About 12 hours after this message arrives in your inbox, I will be commencing a road trip that will take me out along
the north coast for about 3-3.5 hours before turning inland to reach the area when the Akukem people live. The Akukem
area borders on two languages where PBT has already completed New Testaments. They have never had a missionary working
with them full-time but several PBT personnel have worked with a team of Akukem men who are working to complete the New
Testament in their language. One colleague recently helped them make some changes to their alphabet so that it more
accurately represents their language. This affects the spelling of a lot of words and there needs to be an evaluation of
whether the new alphabet is acceptable and beneficial to those who read and write in the language. The colleague who
helped them with the changes is unable to make the trip so I am going, along with a recently-arrived family who have
some expertise in this area. Another goal is to encourage the people to use the gospel of Mark that has been published
in Akukem and incorporate Jesus' message into their lives.

Take Two Prayer Points:

1. Thank God that I was able to make great progress on the back-translation of 1 Corinthians this past week.
2. Pray for the trip that we will be making this week, specifically that the travel will be uneventful (no flats, no
   accidents, no attempted hold-ups, etc.), that we will be able to obtain a good assessment of the new alphabet, and,
   most importantly, our interaction with the Akukem people will be directed by the Holy Spirit, resulting in positive,
   encouraging encounters.

Follow-up:

A few weeks back we asked you to pray for Kenny, son of dear Waran friends, who is suffering from TB. The treatment is
having a positive effect on him. He has more appetite so is eating better and gaining strength. His lungs are already
functioning better. Kenny is committed to completing the treatment course, very important with TB.
