---
title: August 7, 2016
date: 2016-08-07
author: William Butler
---

This week my focus has been on back-translation, the process of turning the Waran into fairly literal, but still
understandable English. The purpose of that is so that a translation consultant who does not know Waran can still assess
the completeness and quality of the Waran translation. The focus is on 1 Corinthians and James, the next books to be
checked.

Here is an example of back-translation from 1 Corinthians 2:9:

> But, we talk the talk concerning that thing that is/remains on Big Father's leaf/paper \[the Scriptures\] like this,
>
> "As for the thing that very earlier not one person saw or concerning the thing (one) never heard talk (about) or
> concerning the thing (one) has not thought (about).
>
> As for those things, Big Father prepared and completely put then (and they) remain for us women men \[people\] who
> remain truly loving him."

While I am focused on those books, I am making small changes in other books as well. The last consultant we worked with
familiarized me with some tools available in our translation software, Paratext. I hadn't been using these tools. Now
when I come across an incorrect spelling for a word, I can easily look to see if the same misspelling occurs elsewhere
in the New Testament and correct all those misspellings at once. Or if I run across a Waran word that I am unfamiliar
with or have forgotten, I can easily see if it is used in other verses, how it has been used, and determine the meaning.
That's very helpful.

That is what I'll be doing this week too. It is tiring and seemingly endless work, but it must be done.

Robin was very glad to receive word that all the work permits that had pending applications have now been approved. That
is an answer to prayer. She now has the details she needs to finalize the visa applications for this same group of
people. Those applications will be sent to the capital city for submission this week.

Take Two Prayer Points

1. Pray for steady progress on the back-translation this week. 1 Corinthians absolutely needs to be done this week.
2. Pray for the Waran checking team back in the village. Samuel is working to improve some parts of 1 Corinthians prior
   to the consultant check. The whole team need to get what they need done on their gardens and other village work so
   they will be able to return on 29 August for the checking session. As always, lift up Konamby for complete healing.
