---
title: September 18, 2016
date: 2016-09-18
author: William Butler
---

We started the week with 182 verses to go. We worked with the consultant on Monday and Tuesday, checking 127 verses. On
Tuesday afternoon Samuel, very aware of how many revisions we still had to do in 1 Corinthians, asked if we could take
Wednesday as a revision day. So we did. On Thursday we checked with the consultant again, completing another 47 verses.
That left us only 8 verses to do. Since Friday was PNG's Independence Day holiday, with special activities happening
around town, we did not work as a group. I worked and I'm sure Samuel did, too, but we didn't work together. Tomorrow we
will check those final 8 verses and as many of the revised verses as we can, finishing on Tuesday or Wednesday.

In working back through 1 Corinthians, I came again to the section in chapter 1:22 and following, where Paul talks about
the expectations and disappointments that the Jewish people and the non-Jewish people had of the Christ and his gospel.
Paul said the Jews wanted a sign -- miracles that would prove to them that those preaching the Gospel were actually
messengers from God. They demanded the same thing from Jesus. While he didn't perform miracles on demand, he did provide
a long list of miraculous signs including the raising of at least three people from the dead. Still that wasn't good
enough for them. Paul says that the non-Jewish people wanted wisdom -- fine words couched in the language of Greek
philosophy that appealed to their aesthetic sense. But for both groups Paul had but one message he could preach -- the
truth about Jesus, the person God sent to save his people from the very fine mess they had gotten themselves into. And
the truth wasn't pretty. To fix the mess, Jesus was hung on a cross until dead.

The Jews found that message impossible to accept because it didn't conform to their expectations of what the Messiah
would be like. How could a dead Jesus be the Messiah who would lead Israel to freedom and reign forever? Every time they
came to the death of Jesus, they tripped up and fell in a heap.

The Greeks found the message of Jesus impossible to accept because it didn't conform to their sense of wisdom. God sent
His son into the world to save people, but then he let him die, and as a criminal no less? Where is the sense in that?
How foolish a God He is! Ugh!

If those had been the only two responses to the Gospel, both the Jews and the non-Jews would have been right. However,
Paul tells us of a third response. Some people from each group put aside their group's knee-jerk, stereotypical response
to the Gospel, long enough to hear the truth of God coming through. And they recognized Jesus for who he really was --
the power of God and the wisdom of God in human form, doing the job he was sent to do, cutting the changes of sin and
flinging open the cell doors, then leading his people to eternal freedom. Praise God that those people heard and
followed and that they have been joined by countless others down through the ages who have continued to accept the
simple but powerful truth of the Gospel.

Today's world has its own factions with their own stereotypical response to the Gospel. I've only begun to think of just
who those groups are and what their response might be. The post-modern adherents think the God, Jesus, and the gospel
are irrelevant. The LGBT community think that the Gospel is without concern for them and excessively harsh. And you can
add other groups that you have encountered or struggle against. But regardless of the group or the response, it all
comes out the same -- rejection of their one true hope. Yet in each of the groups there are some whom God is calling who
will lay aside their biases just long enough to hear truth and let if speak to them. They too will recognize the Power
of God and the Wisdom of God. God is not willing that any should perish but that all be saved. So we continue to sow the
seeds and spread the truth.

Prayer Points:

1. That the Waran team will finish the checking and revisions well this week.
2. William and Robin will have time after the team leaves on Thursday to prepare their hearts for PBT's spiritual
   retreat next week.

Blessings,

William and Robin
