---
title: October 23, 2016
date: 2016-10-23
author: William Butler
---

We started the week with 221 verses to check this session. We ended the week with 46 left to do. That was way better
than we expected but we'll take it! Praise God! We may finish on Monday but more likely on Tuesday.

I think there might be a reason for our good progress. These were the last three books that Samuel and I reviewed and
revised, finishing all of them in February. If we were ever going to demonstrate that we were good at what we do, these
books should show it. There have been very few things that the consultant has asked us to reconsider. This has meant
that at the end of each day's session Samuel and I haven't had many, many things to correct like we did in 1
Corinthians. It has been a relief. The days and most nights have still been very busy as I completed the
back-translation and we both reviewed the text that we would cover in the next day's session.

Robin has continued to fight the infection and pains associated from this attack. She had a couple of days that she was
well enough to go work in her office for a few hours to stay up on things. The doctor thinks that she is winning the
battle with the original infection. This weekend she has been hit with something that seems quite different than what
has been going. She thinks it is a short-lasting virus taking advantage of her weakened condition. We can hope so but,
regardless of the cause, life is definitely more difficult when you aren't feeling well.

An update on Konamby: Samuel reports that Konamby is doing his rehab exercises faithfully. He now is able to hold a
stick in one hand and put the other hand on a wall and walk around some. I'm sure the steps are slow and short but he
can now support his weight and move around a bit while vertical. That is definite improvement. We always knew it would
be a slow progress, and it is agonizingly slow, but the key word is progress. As long as there is progress there is hope
for a full recovery.

Prayer Points:

-   Thank God for Chris, our consultant, and the wonderful progress in checking. Pray that the team will continue to
    work well to complete the checking and finalize these three books.
-   Pray that Robin will be restored to full health soon. She is now officially sick of being sick and I'm sick of it
    too!

I'll attach a picture this week of the current team. It was taken by our consultant in panorama format. That format can
really mess with your mind but it does allow everyone to be seen reasonably well in the same picture. Max (refer to last
week's Take Two) is to my left, all by himself. Samuel is to my immediate right. Going on around the table is David
(younger brother of Seraah Tange, who was a key member of our team until her death), Kevin (the other literacy
supervisor), and Kaius (one of the village leaders).

Thank you for standing with us in prayer,

William and Robin
