---
title: "January 26, 2016 -- News Flash"
date: 2016-01-26
author: William Butler
people: [William Butler]
---

News Flash in from William:

Since I arrived in PNG, I have tried calling the numbers of Waran people I have on my contact list. I had been
unsuccessful in reaching any of them -- until today.

Yesterday, I tried calling a man named Brown, who is from Yar, Samuel's village. The call kept terminating before
ringing, a sign that the phone is off the network. This morning I was working at my desk and went to get something to
drink. I left my phone on my desk. When I came back I noticed that I had a missed call from Brown. I was disappointed
that I hadn't taken my phone with me and missed his call. I immediately tried returning his call and the call went
straight through to him. He told me that Samuel was there in Yar, that he hadn't received the message I sent, and that
he would tell Samuel that I wanted him to come to Madang.

Tonight at 8:30 I received a call from Samuel. He is now working toward getting to Madang as quickly as possible. Praise
God for that contact and Samuel's willingness to stop everything he is doing and come to town to work! That is indeed an
answer to our prayers this week! Thank you!

---

And now, for the rest of the story:

Brown never intended to call me at all! My calls to him did not show up as missed calls on his phone so he didn't even
know I had been calling him. His call to me was a total misdial. He intended to call the person next to me in his
contact list but "accidentally" dialed my number instead. Also, several minutes passed between the time he called me and
I returned his call, yet Brown was still at the little spot about 20 minutes from Yar where people have to stand when
they want network coverage to make a phone call. God is good! He just wanted us to know He has everything under control
and He is with us.
