---
title: "January 17, 2016"
date: 2016-01-17
author: Robin Butler
people: [William Butler, Robin Butler, Samuel Sangon]
storylines:
  - Furlough 2015
  - New Testament Advisor Check
tags:
  - AGM
---

The past few months have flown by. We have had the privilege to see some of you and hope to see more of you in the near future. We have been able to spend some very special times with family. God is good!

When {{< person William >}} and {{< person Samuel >}} last worked together before our furlough, they saw how close they were to finishing the Advisor Check of the Waran New Testament. Neither wanted to wait to finish that until we returned from furlough, primarily because they saw that the rest of 2016 would go better if that stage were already finished when we returned. They agreed to try work in January and February to finish that part of the task. For that reason, William flew to PNG this week. It is a good time for Samuel because it is the middle of wet season and there is less work to do in the village right now.

January 18-22 is PBT's annual meeting of all PBT missionaries in Papua New Guinea. During this meeting we look back at what was accomplished in the previous year, remembering God's faithfulness to us and the people we minister among. We also seek God's guidance for the future, trying to discern where He is at work and making decisions that strategically support what He is doing. William will be attending that meeting and working in the evenings to complete preparations for the work with Samuel.

## Prayer points

1. Pray that God will speak clearly to the PBT missionaries as they strategically plan for the future. Pray that all who attend will be listening to God and considering one another as they discuss and make decisions. May everything they do honor God and advance His kingdom.

2. Pray that Samuel will make it to Madang at the scheduled time. Without direct communication with him, we must rely on others to pass the word along. Pray that the word will get through and Samuel will make his scheduled flight.
