---
title: September 25, 2016
date: 2016-09-25
author: William Butler
---

Four to go!  With the successful completion of the consultant check of 1 Corinthians and James this week, we now have
only 4 books of the Waran New Testament that haven't been consultant checked.

We finished the last verses of James with the consultant on Monday morning. The rest of the day Samuel and I worked on
some of the remaining verses that needed to be revised. The consultant hoped that we would finish all of them but, as is
usually the case, the verses to be revised were among the hardest, most problematic verses in the book. We did what we
could.

We met again with the consultant on Tuesday morning to go through the completed revisions. All the revisions we had done
were approved by the consultant. We again spent the rest of the day working on the six revisions that were left on the
consultant's list.

Wednesday morning the consultant checked the final revisions on his list and drew the sessions to completion. In spite
of having completed the consultant's list, Samuel and I spent most of Wednesday working on other verses in 1 Corinthians
that we had put on our own lists. By the end of the day we felt like we had done as much as we could for now. But we
both know that we will take another good look at this book before we get to the publication stage.

The men returned to Likan village by MAF plane on Thursday morning. They completed their homeward journey to Yar village
before dark, ringing to let me know they had arrived safely.

We initially translated 1 Corinthians in 2005. Not much has changed in the language or the words that we use in the
intervening years; however, Samuel and I have changed a lot in how we work together and that shows in the results of our
work. We hardly had any problems in James that was translated in 2014, but we had many revisions to do in 1 Corinthians.
That made this checking session much, much more difficult than any we've had in recent years.

As a result of this experience, we have decided that we will take a couple of weeks in November to work through 2
Corinthians again before it is consultant checked. It was translated shortly after 1 Corinthians so will probably suffer
from some of the same weaknesses and lack of clarity. We'd rather go through the revisions at our own pace rather than
have to work through them under pressure during a checking session.

We also can see that we might expect the same drawbacks in the Gospel of Mark, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, and
Colossians. These were the first books we translated and published. We always knew they would need some revisions, but
they might need more than we were expecting. It is good to know this early on so that we can adjust our schedules
accordingly.

Praise and Prayer points:

1. Praise God for the completed check of 1 Corinthians and James. Thank God also for Wes Beasley who travelled from the
   US to serve as consultant.
2. Pray for William as he works on translating back into English the Waran books of 1 and 2 Timothy, the next books to
   be consultant checked.
3. Pray for the PBTPNG team as we gather for our annual retreat Sunday evening through Tuesday afternoon. May God grant
   to us rest and renewal as He draws us deeper into Him.

Have a blessed week,

William and Robin
