---
title: October 16, 2016
date: 2016-10-16
author: William Butler
---

It has been week of happenings!

Early Monday morning brought an unexpected surprise. Max Kamgru arrived at the office! Max is one of the literacy
supervisors who was given a great deal of training by Lynn True Muir, Robin's sister, when she worked with us as a
literacy specialist in the early 2000's. Lynn, Max and Kevin Mong, the other literacy supervisor, developed the Waran
language curriculum for Elementary Prep (EP), the first level of vernacular education in the government system of the
time. Later Max and Kevin worked with another Papua New Guinean and several PBT personnel, including our daughter
Bethaney, to produce a model EP curriculum in the common Tok Pisin language. The goal was for other language groups to
use this as a guide for developing their own vernacular curriculum.

The team also started working on the model curriculum for Elementary 1 (E1) in Tok Pisin, the next level in the
government's educational program. Lynn, Max and Kevin had started on the Waran E1 curriculum but had not completed it.
But while the team was developing E1, Max's wife developed cancer and eventually died. This was very difficult for him
to deal with and he withdrew from literacy work. Later on he married a woman from a neighboring language group, La'o,
and went to live in her area. After that he just sort of dropped out of sight.

Meanwhile PBT continued working on the E1 curriculum development. The E1 level was completed and adapted for the La'o
language. Three weeks ago PBT held a teacher training course in the La'o area and Max showed up to see what was going
on. He told the PBT person who was teaching in the course that he wanted to talk to me. Arrangements were made, we had a
phone conversation, and I invited Max to come to town for the next checking session. This was something Samuel had asked
me to try to do before he left town after the last session. I didn't know how I could do as he asked, but it turns out,
I didn't need to. God took charge of that! I knew Max was coming this week but I thought he was coming on Wednesday or
Thursday so I was shocked to see him first thing Monday morning.

Max was very apologetic for dropping out of literacy for such a long time. Two things had happened that helped to get
him going again:

-   His sister died in June and he went back to his home village for the funeral and mourning. While he was there,
    people really got on him for not doing his job in literacy. While this might seem a little harsh, I rejoiced when he
    told me that because it indicates that the people see value in their children learning to read and write in Waran.
    That hasn't always been the case.
-   Max had seen the finished E1 curriculum for the La'o at the training course and was really excited by it. He said,
    "We have to have that in Waran too and I am here to work on it." Yes, Lord!

So, even though I already had my week fully planned, I did what any sane person would do when presented with God at work
like that -- I went off-plan! My mind was on translation so I had to shift quickly to literacy. All day Monday, Tuesday
and most of Wednesday, Max and I worked to figure out which of the 138 reading books that are used in the E1 curriculum
already existed in Waran. We went through the main files and found 85 books. We felt pretty good about already having
more than half the books needed. But then I found another folder that had 31 more books. These had all been created
years ago anticipation of an E1 curriculum but had not been moved into the main folder. With a bit more searching I
found the Waran text of 4 more books. So in the end there are only 18 books that have to be created from scratch and
some of those are Bible story books based on Matthew and Luke, both of which we now have in Waran. That will make the
job easier.  Max has spent the rest of the week working to reduce that number to zero.

Since I've already gone on for a long time, I will just list some of the other events:

-   Chris Urton, who is working with our team to check 1 & 2 Timothy and Philemon, arrived on Wednesday and moved in
    with us.
-   Chris's suitcases arrived on Thursday. Robin took Kenny (remember, one of our village kids who has TB) to the TB
    clinic to get the next month of medicine but the clinic is closed due to a protest by hospital doctors.
-   Friday morning, William takes Kenny back to the clinic and successfully gets the medicine.
-   Friday midday, Samuel and three other members of the checking team arrive via MAF as scheduled and settle into their
    accommodations.
-   Friday afternoon, William helps a new PBT team load their essentials onto a helicopter for their first stay in the
    language group where they feel God is leading them to work. What joy!
-   Friday evening, William gets Samuel's computer updated and returns it to him so he can work on the books that will
    be checked in this session.
-   Friday night, we all collapse in a heap!

Throughout this week, William has continued working on the back-translation.

This week has been a really rough one for Robin. She has been having some symptoms of diverticulitis with sharp
abdominal pains. She is now on her second round of treatment and, following the doctor's instructions, is eating very
little to aid in resolving the issue. In a cruel twist, Chris brought several gluten-free items especially for Robin but
all she can do for now is look at them!

Take Two Prayer Points:

1.  Please pray that Robin will soon be restored to good health.
2.  Please pray that the checking session that will start on Monday morning will go well. Pray that we will find every
    one of the small things that could interfere with the right meaning getting through to the Waran people.

Blessings,

William and Robin
