---
title: "January 24, 2016"
date: 2016-01-24
author: William Butler
people: [William Butler, Erastus Otairobo]
storylines:
  - Erastus
tags:
  - AGM
---

This week I participated in the meeting of all Pioneer Bible
Translators' missionaries in Papua New Guinea. There was a spirit of
thankfulness, expectation, and anticipation that pervaded the meeting.
Three New Testaments are nearing completion! Waran is one of those. For
years we have been praying that God would provide us with more
missionaries to help meet the spiritual needs of the more than 80
language groups in our sphere of influence that have no scripture in
their language. In the past year God, has grown our number by seven! And
more are on their way. Thank you, God. At our meeting we recognized
these two things: 1) God is laying the foundation for something big, and
2) we have to be ready when God answers all our prayers. I will write
more about that in the future.

Right now there are two urgent things we want to share with you.

Take Two Prayer Requests

1. Erastus Otairobo is a citizen of the Solomon Islands. He is married to a Papua New Guinea lady and they live here in
Madang. While still in the Solomons, Erastus was part of a translation team there. He was later trained as a translation
consultant. For the last nine years, Erastus has worked half-time as part of the translation team for Baegu, his own
mother tongue, and half-time with PBT. The Baegu translation team had their final checking session scheduled for March
2016 but have been forced to delay it. Erastus is very ill and the doctors do not know what his problem is. He is quite
thin and weak. Imagine that -- so close to the finish and unable to continue and very little left in the way of hope.
But, of course, we all know that it is in such dark valleys that the Lord often chooses to shine. Please pray for divine
healing for our brother, Erastus.

2. I have still not heard from Samuel, our co-translator. If he were able to come on Monday, I should have heard
something from him by now. I don't know what circumstances might have prevented him from contacting me or from coming.
He could still be on the road and just hasn't yet arrived at a place where he can contact me. Please pray for his trip
and that our work time together will be efficient and effective.

Please also remember our daughter, Bethaney, as she starts her trip back to PNG on Monday January 25th.
