---
title: October 30, 2016
date: 2016-10-30
author: William Butler
---

We have enjoyed a very good week.

On Tuesday morning the checking team completed the consultant check of 2 Timothy. The rest of the day Samuel and I
worked on the few corrections that still had not been made. By the end of the day, we had completed them and the
consultant had checked and approved the revisions.

Since we returned to PNG in June, the Waran team has checked 6 books, comprising 1917 verses. Thank you for praying us
through this extremely busy and taxing time. To help you visualize the progress, I've included a comparison graphic in
the attached file.

Only the 257 verses of 2 Corinthians have not yet been consultant checked! Samuel and I have already begun examining the
Waran text and making revisions to update the text that was originally translated in 2005.

Also this week the team met to discuss some plans for literacy activities. Having Samuel and both literacy supervisors,
Max and Kevin all together was very helpful. We discussed the need to resolve some issues with spelling before the New
Testament is finalized. The men told me that the headmistress (principal) of the government school near Yar was
encouraging them to resume the village literacy training that they had been doing with children before they enrolled in
the government school. That was encouraging to them. They also noted that the children who had not had the pre-school
training did not do so well in the government school. I sort of shook my head when they said that. That is exactly what
Lynn told them years ago and it was what they had been told when they went through the supervisor training. But now they
are observing and realizing for themselves that it really is true.

We also talked quite about what needs to be done in curriculum development. Samuel listened very intently as Max and
Kevin spoke at length about the various things that they saw we needed to do to move forward. Then he said, "I know a
lot about translation, but when you guys start talking, I don't understand what you are talking about!" He's right, of
course. I felt a little bit the same, but I did know some of the specialized vocabulary. Max and Kevin have had very
good training and, even though they haven't put that training to use in recent years, it is still very much accessible
to them. It was extremely encouraging to listen to them talk in detail about their plans.

The checking team will be returning home tomorrow (Monday). We wanted to send them back as quickly as possible because
they all still have garden work to do. The gardens are an essential source of food. That all needs to be completed
before the wet season hits. No one knows when that will be but it should be in the next month or so.

Max will be staying on for a few more days and we will begin preliminary work on the E1 Curriculum. He'll be the brains
of the operation and I will assist by locating the files and books that he needs to move along smoothly. I haven't yet
worked with the E1 curriculum and literacy was never my strong suit, so I face a steep learning curve.

Robin has been improving all week. Thank you so much for your prayers. She hasn't been well but she hasn't had much pain
and has been able to eat a little more solid food each day. She has had a small set-back today but there has been no
pain with it. We trust this will go away in a day or two and she can begin to slowly return to a normal diet. Please
continue to pray with us.

Take Two Prayer Points:

-   Thank God for the completion of the checking session and the progress so far this year. Pray for the team as they
    return home and complete their garden work. Pray that their gardens will yield well.
-   Pray for Max and William as they work on literacy this week. Pray that a foundation can be established on which to
    build the new Waran E1 curriculum.

God Bless,

William and Robin

PS. Photo of checking team attached (left to right): David, Max, Kaius, Samuel, Kevin.
