---
title: August 21, 2016
date: 2016-08-21
author: William Butler
---

Our trip out to visit and work with the Akukem people went really well -- for as long as it lasted. Our plan was to go
to one main village Monday then on Wednesday to travel to the second main village. On the trip out we had two Akukem men
along with us to assist us if any difficulties arose and to show us the way once we left the main road. After we turned
off the main road we had to make two more turns before arriving in the village. With each turn the road got narrower,
less travelled, and, therefore, less visible. After the last turn, we were on a road that reminded me of a lot of old
logging roads I have run across in the woods while hunting. No gravel at all and no tire tracks. It went up and down and
around the hills in a way that made me feel right at home but frightened passengers not accustomed to such terrain.
After a final steep climb, we arrived safely in the village of Akukem 1.

We were cordially welcomed into the village. I dare say not many people of our color had ever been there, especially
those who brought small children with them. But after a while the novelty wore off and conversation turned to what we
had come to do. All day Tuesday we engaged with many village leaders and key people, including all of the Akukem
translators that lived nearby. We tested the recent changes to their alphabet. At first, it seemed like there was some
opposition to the changes. However, after one of the more vocal supporters for the old alphabet read aloud a small book
written in the new alphabet without difficulty, consensus for the new alphabet began to build. Soon everyone agreed the
new alphabet was the way to go.

We also spent a long time listening to the translators and the community talk about the difficulties they have
encountered in moving their New Testament forward to completion. PBT simply doesn't have personnel that we can commit to
them full-time, which is what they would really like. Although I did explain why we couldn't yet help them more and they
seem to understand the reasons, that still doesn't necessarily make it easier to wait. Rather than just complain, they
did put forward some ideas that they thought might be worth trying. In the end, I found myself wondering, "How long, O
Lord, must these people wait?" Having to say, "No," or "Not now," is one of the hardest things about being here.

On Wednesday morning, travel day, we awoke to light rain. Thinking about the road out, I was a little nervous. But the
rain soon stopped and the sun came out and the wind picked up to dry things off. However, after a brief break, the rain
started up again, even harder. Even I was beginning to think we might not get out that day. But we continued on with the
wrapping-up process, including a meal shared together and speeches of thanks all around. All too soon, it was time to
go. All the men assured us that the road was solid and wouldn't give us trouble. I accepted their advice because I knew
they wouldn't want to give bad advice. They would never be able to overcome the shame if we slid down the side of the
hill!

Just as we were ready to get in the vehicle, a sucker punch came flying in. A call from Akukem 2 told us that they had
just had a massive rain there and the road into their village was impassable. They recommended that we just return to
Madang. Since we had to go that way anyway, we decided to have a look ourselves and maybe a try anyway. As the Akukem 1
men had indicated, getting out of there wasn't any problem. As we neared the turn-off for Akukem 2, we began to see
large pools of water alongside the main road, clear evidence of a significant rainfall. At the mouth of the road, one of
the translators who lives in Akukem 2 was waiting. He had just hiked out and assured us that the potholes were too deep
and the hills too slippery for us to attempt to go in. Although we were disappointed, from what we had seen on the main
road, we knew he was right. So we said goodbye and headed into town, no doubt leaving behind some who were quite
disappointed. No one expects a massive rain in the middle of August, a normally dry month.

We made it back into Madang about 8:25, well after dark, but without incident.

Since I returned I have been back at the computer, working on back-translation again. I expect to finish 1 Corinthians
before I sleep tonight. Tomorrow I will start on James.

Prayer Points:

1. **Akukem**: Praise God for the safe trip there and back and the positive interaction with the people of Akukem 1.
   Pray that they will also find encouragement from our visit and will keep fueling their vision to see God's Word in
   their language. Pray also that God will show PBT how we can help the Akukem, either by raising up those who can work
   with them full-time or by showing us ways that we haven't yet thought of.
2. Please continue to pray for **completion of the back-translation**. I only have one week to go before the Waran team
   arrives and the work sessions begin.
