---
title: October 2, 2016
date: 2016-10-02
author: William Butler
---

This week began with PBT's spiritual retreat. It was indeed a time of renewal and refreshment and a time for building up
one another. It was also a time for drawing the team closer to each other as we listened to one another's stories of
heartache and victory, then prayed for one another.

It was also a busy week with several trips to the airport as Robin fills in for our daughter Bethaney, who is our
Administrator of Logistics and is in the US at this time. Several team members who were in town for the retreat returned
to their place of service or went on furlough.

It was also a week of continued disruption of work due to problems with electricity supply. The town electrical supply
has had a lot of interruptions. At other times power has been on but the voltage has been too low or too high to safely
use it to run computers. Normally we are protected at the PBT office from such problems because we have a back-up
generator that comes on automatically when town power fails. But right now that generator is not working. The fuel pump
had to be sent away for a rebuild. It was supposed to take a week or two at the most but we are now into our third week,
with no end in sight.

These power interruptions also affect the health and morale of the entire team because without power to run fans life is
pretty miserable and sleeping at night is really difficult.

Prayer Points:

1. Please pray that those working on the generator fuel pump will complete their work quickly and send it back so that
   all of us here in Madang can return to a normal work routine.
2. Continue to pray for William as he works on the back translation for 1 and 2 Timothy.

Blessings,

William and Robin
