---
title: October 9, 2016
date: 2016-10-09
author: William Butler
---

Our message is delayed this week because we had no internet service at the time we usually send it. We had power at the
PBT office building and our system was up and running. However, we were unable to connect to our internet provider. The
power has been on and off a few times today in town so quite possibly the provider simply has no power to operate their
equipment. They have a battery back-up but the batteries have to recharge when the power comes back on. When the power
cycles on and off frequently, the batteries simply don't get recharged completely and eventually run down.

As bad as it might seem to us, I am reminded that our colleagues in Africa rarely have as much power as we have been
getting this week. So I am reminded that we should praise God for what power we do have. At least here we have hope that
the power supply will get better and our generator will get fixed before too much longer. And at least power is mostly
on at night so that the town stays lit up and criminals cannot easily break in then run away in the total darkness.

This week was a lot like last week but with a lot less airport runs. Most everyone got to where they were going by the
end of the weekend. I continued to work on the back-translation and make my list of things that have to be done before
the Waran men come into town on Friday. Right now I am in the process of crossing off one of those things---make banana
bread! The guys like to have some kind of snack at morning and afternoon tea times. They love banana bread and making it
is a lot cheaper than any of the other crackers and cookies that can be bought around town. I've made three loaves
already, three more are in the oven and three more yet to come. With the one I still have in the freezer, that will get
us through 10 work days. Of course, I'll need to make some more near the end of their time in town because I know they
will ask for a loaf for each of them to take home.

Robin has completed processing a major influx of approved work permits and passports with visas in them. The work of
meeting government requirements never really ends but now that this major group has come through, which Robin has been
working on since before we returned to PNG in June, work will slow down.

Prayer Points:

-   Pray that Chris, the consultant coming to work with us in the upcoming checking session, will arrive as schedule
    with all his bag. None of that is a given on international flights.
-   Pray that Samuel and the Waran men who will be coming in for this session will be able to make the trip from their
    home in Yar Village up to the airstrip at Likan with minimal difficult. The water level in the river is very low
    right now so they will have to negotiate around logs and stumps in the river and probably even pull the canoe over
    really shallow spots and sandbars. A heavy rain upriver would really help them a lot.

Have a blessed week,

William and Robin
