---
title: "January 31, 2016"
date: 2016-01-31
author: William Butler
people: [William Butler]
---

It has been a tense week for me in PNG. I started the week wondering if our co-translator Samuel had gotten my message
and was on his way to Madang.

Then Tuesday came and contact with Samuel: No he hadn't gotten my message but he would make his way to town as soon as
possible. Then the waiting began again. Samuel would call me when he got into a good service area on the way to Wewak
where he could catch a plane to Madang. Wednesday, nothing.

Thursday, nothing. Every day I'm checking what flights are still available in case he calls. Friday, nothing. But
wait... I'm still at work at my desk at 5:16 Friday afternoon when my cell phone rings. I look at the number on the
screen and it isn't Samuel's. Disappointed, I answer the call anyway.

"This is Samuel," he says. He is already in Wewak. Praise God! His phone was acting up so he wasn't able to call me
until he got to where he could use someone else's phone.

The airline offices were already closed but I was able to quickly find a ticket online for Monday morning, 6:20 am.
Samuel was glad for the extra days in Wewak so that he could figure out a way to get out to the airport so early in the
morning. Public transportation isn't available then. Another man from his village was with him so he had a companion
there. So the tension drained away in the space of a few minutes. I don't know why I continue using the energy to worry
and fret. By now I should know without a doubt that God has it all under control. Lord willing, at 6:50 Monday morning,
PNG time, (3:50 PM, Sunday, EST) Samuel will walk off the plane in Madang.

Thus will begin another intense work period. Our 19 work days have shrunk to 14 but it is still possible to meet our
goals if we keep focused and our hearts set on Him. Some of the fringe projects that I was hoping to get done probably
won't happen but I'm not ruling out anything yet. Miracles still happen.

Following up from last week, our friend Erastus saw a respected private doctor here in town on Friday. His analysis
reached a conclusion similar to that of the hospital doctors. The doctor then made a compelling argument to Erastus as
to why he should go to the capital city, Port Moresby, and get a specific specialized test done. This is something that
Erastus has been very reluctant to do but, having been persuaded, he is now off to Port Moresby on Monday morning. I
don't know if the doctors are right in their assessment or not, but I do know the One who can heal Erastus, by whatever
means he chooses. When I spoke with Erastus he exhibited his strong faith. He feels strongly that God is not through
with him yet but has more for him to do.

Erastus hasn't been to the office for several weeks now but Sunday afternoon he felt strong enough to come in to have a
look at his email before he heads off to Port Moresby. He was concerned that he might have missed something important,
especially concerning his translation work. Just to see him walk into the office seemed like a miracle. He is still weak
and his voice has lost its commanding presence but he is so much better than two weeks ago. We were all gathered here
for a time of fellowship and prayer so we prayed over Erastus and sent him off with assurance of our participation with
him in this journey of faith.

Take Two Pray Requests:

1. Pray that Samuel will, in fact, arrive in Madang and that our work will get off to a good start this week.

2. Praise God for Erastus' trust in Him. Pray that his visit with doctors in Port Moresby will result in further insight
into what is wrong with him and how to make him better. I'd be quite happy for God to bypass all that and heal him
outright. Erastus would too.

Update on Bethaney:

An unexpected turn in events caused Bethaney to have to cancel her flights to PNG on Sunday evening January 24th (she
was to leave Monday 25th). It was a disappointment to say the least. Please pray that things will come together and she
will be able to rebook her flights without too much trouble. God is in control.

Thank you for standing with us.

Robin and William
