**Take Two - October 21, 2018**

**William and Robin Butler**

For the past few weeks we have had two colleagues staying with us. Both
now live in the US but return to PNG periodically to work. Chris is
continuing to work on a translation for the Sob people and is here
specifically as the Sob advisor during the consultant check of the book
of Acts. Steve was here as the consultant. He and the Tay translation
team completed the Tay New Testament four years ago.

Just before he left Steve offered me some advice: Don't forget to look
for the joy over the next few months. I thanked him for the reminder
because I mostly feel overwhelmed by the sheer volume of work yet to do.
He went on to say that the next few months will be really hard but there
is joy in it.

I was reminded of Psalm 30:5 "joy comes in the morning." That phrase is
preceded by "weeping may endure for a night but ...." The joy is
definitely coming but there is first the night to get through.

And then there is Hebrews 12:2, "Looking unto Jesus **the** author and
finisher of our faith; who **for** **the** **joy** that was **set**
**before** **him** endured **the** cross,..." Jesus received the joy
that he anticipated but there was the cross to endure first. Now what we
are experiencing is in no way comparable to the cross, but it is still
something to be endured, worked through, and overcome. I'll come back to
this a little later.

On Tuesday the entire Waran team except Max left Madang on their way
back home to Yar village. The five recordists could all fit on the
airplane but with little space left for personal baggage.  Samuel
couldn't fit on the plane and the plane didn't have enough time to make
a second trip. So, we planned for Samuel to fly commercially to Wewak
and go by road and by river to get home. In order to make more space for
baggage on the plane, one of the recordists volunteered to go with
Samuel. In the end it all worked out well, since we had space to fit
Samuel's computer and the printed copies of portions of the recorded
books on the plane as well as some personal cargo. Those who went by
plane made it home on Tuesday afternoon while Samuel and Kevin arrived
Thursday evening.

Before he started the river trip Samuel told me that his son had come
down from Yar to pick them up and reported that Delila was responding to
the medicine given to her and was able to sit up again. That was
encouraging news.

Meanwhile back in Madang, Max has been finishing up his own recordings
in Romans and Acts. He spent so much time managing the recordists and
listening to their recordings that he just couldn't finish his own. But
he has finished both books now and re-recorded the places where he
needed to. He will turn to working on the literacy curriculum this week.
That is why he came to town in the first place but he graciously put
that aside to manage the recording work so I could focus on translation
work with Samuel. Max's wife came into town to attend a ladies'
conference so when she is ready to go back, he'll accompany her for a
short village stay.

Why is it so important to find the joy in what we are doing? For months
now, we have been combing the New Testament over and over trying to get
everything right. In that process, we are constantly faced with little
errors and oversights and failures to follow through. You think you've
dealt with everything in a book and suddenly you see a glaring mistake.
Doing that day after day takes an emotional toll. It shakes your
confidence and opens you up for dark thoughts about your suitability for
the task and your ability to even finish. Your heart is filled with
doubt and darkness. When I stop and think it all through my head tells
me that none of this is true, that it is all lies that Satan is feeding
my heart, trying to keep me from finishing well. My head struggles to
keep my heart under control.

I am not alone in this. One of my colleagues is also finalizing a New
Testament. A few weeks ago she sent me an email telling me that she was
experiencing thoughts very similar to those I'm been experiencing. Satan
was even telling her that the people group she is ministering to just
isn't worth it and her work and her life are a complete waste. So,
Satan's strategy has been revealed for what it is and we fight against
it but it is an ongoing battle that no doubt will continue through the
night and perhaps many nights but since joy comes in the morning we must
endure until the joy is ours.

Thank you for allowing me to weekly share with you, openly and honestly.
Doing so lightens the burdens because I know you will pray and together
we will overcome!

Prayer Points:

-   Pray for Robin. She has several roles within the broader PBT group
    here. Right now, in one of those roles, she and those working with
    her are facing an extremely challenging and demanding task. It
    requires much compassion and understanding combined with wisdom and
    insight in a matter that hasn't been faced before. Please be praying
    that the Lord will grant these things to her and her companions on
    the journey. May his will be done.

-   Pray for me, that I can keep the demons and my own self at bay and
    daily make progress toward our completion goals. Please pray for
    anything else that you might perceive from what I have written
    above.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
