**Take Two - February 11, 2018**

William and Robin Butler

Oops!

What else could I say? Samuel and I had been working all morning with
each of us working on separate things. Best practice says that we should
set the software so that only one of us can edit a book. That way we
can't possibly edit the same verse and create a problem when we try to
merge our changes into one file. However, Samuel was working on spelling
issues and needed to be able to correct misspellings wherever they
occur. So, he had access to the entire New Testament. When he is doing
tasks like that, I try not make any changes in the text, so I had not
bothered to remove my own access.

During my work I noticed that the software had a problem with the way I
had entered the footnote references. I had followed the pattern of the
Tok Pisin Bible and put parentheses around them. The software did not
like that and I knew it would create problems for us in the typesetting
phase. There was nothing to do but remove the parentheses. It was a
quick process because I could use Find and Replace to do the job.

Later in the day, we tried to merge our changes and I got a notification
from the software: 44 conflicts! Oops! Maybe I should have followed best
practice after all! A handful of conflicts was all we had ever gotten
before and now there were 44!

It sounds terrible and I initially thought that it might take several
hours to sort it all out, but it didn't. The software not only shows
where the conflict is, but also highlights the conflicting changes so
they are easy to identify. It just hadn't occurred to me that the
changes I made in the footnotes would conflict with the changes Samuel
made in the verses, but it should have. The software sees the footnote
as a part of the verse to which it is connected. Therefore, all the
verses that had footnotes and also had a corrected spelling now showed
as a conflict!

The conflicts weren't true conflicts, the kind that occur when we each
try to edit the same word or phrase. In this case, I made changes in one
place and Samuel made changes in a different part of the verse, so we
weren't competing against each other. I just had to go to each verse and
accept [all]{.underline} the changes for that verse. In half an hour I
had removed the conflicts.

While I did that, Samuel continue working. As a result, the next time we
attempted to merge we had another 22 conflicts. I was anticipating
something like that and was able to resolve them quickly.

All in all, it was a valuable learning experience at a cheap price. And
it wasn't as bad as it could have been. I made changes in all 220
footnotes but there were only 66 conflicts! That means that more than
two-thirds of the changes I made didn't conflict with anything.

**Robin had a victory this week**! Two of the work permits that were in
for renewal were approved and released. That means that she could file
the paperwork for visa renewals for these two people before their visas
expire this week. She is still waiting on a work permit for a new
missionary that is waiting to come to PNG.

Prayer Points:

-   Praise God for the release of two work permits this past week.
    Several more are awaiting approval. Especially pray that the work
    permit for our new colleague will be released this week.

-   Thank God for the progress Samuel and I have made this week. Thank
    God also for the development in Samuel's skill and initiative in
    smoothing out problems in the Waran text. He is really taking
    ownership of the text and striving to make it the best it can be.

Blessings,

William and Robin

Update on Jeff True:  Please pray for Jeff as he starts a series of five
treatments with high dose radiation on Wednesday, February 14, with the
last dose on Tuesday, February 20, followed by dual colon and liver
resection surgery on Wednesday, February 21.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
