**Take Two - February 4, 2018**

William and Robin Butler

After a short time in the US with our families over the holidays, we
arrived back in Papua New Guinea on January 17. The first week back we
were part of the annual meeting of all the Pioneer Bible Translators
missionaries here. Last week we continued to meet in training sessions
provided by PBT's international office.

Samuel arrived in town on Thursday afternoon. He and I are both charged
up to be back at work together again. For the next five weeks we will be
working full-time trying to finalize the text of the Waran New
Testament. It is an ambitious goal but with perseverance we believe it
is achievable. We recently transferred the Waran translation to the
newest version of Paratext, the translation software we use. It has many
more checking routines that will help us identify potential problems in
the text. Using the latest version also ensures that we won't run into
problems when we enter the typesetting phase later in the year.

Robin has continued to experience delays in her work of getting approval
of work permits and visas. Some small victories are won but several
things are still in process that Robin would really like to have
completed. She does everything she can then waits as patiently as
possible.

Prayer Points:

-   Pray that Robin will have success this week in receiving approved
    paperwork for our fellow missionaries.

-   Pray that Samuel and I will make excellent progress this week.

Blessings,

William and Robin

Update on Jeff True:  Jeff has finished the first round of chemo with
amazing results. There was shrinkage in both tumor sites. This month he
will be undergoing radiation then surgery. We are praying that the
outcome of this phase will be as amazing as the last.  Your prayers are
making a difference, please continue to pray.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
