Take Two - February 25, 2018

William and Robin Butler

Samuel and I have made significant progress in regularizing the spelling
in the Waran New Testament and marking words that are spelled correctly.
We started out with over 10,000 unique "words," but some of those
weren't really words but parts of words that had been incorrectly
separated. We are now down to 9,301 unique words in the New Testament.
Of those, there are still 2,466 words that haven't been reviewed and
marked as correct. That still seems like a big number but it is
significantly better than the 10,000+ we started with.

Robin was very happy to receive the work permit for the new colleague
that we asked you to pray about. As soon as Robin received the work
permit she was able to submit the application for his visa. She isn't
anticipating any difficulties with that but the unexpected can happen at
any point.

Over the last couple of weeks, we have continued working as hard as
ever, but our thoughts very frequently went to our families in the US.
Robin's nephew Jeff had surgery on Wednesday to remove the cancerous
growths in his body. The surgery was more complicated than doctors
anticipated and took over 12 hours to complete. However, the surgeons
were pleased with the outcome and Jeff is improving every day on the
path to recovery. As soon as he is able they will be moving on to
further treatment.

Also, my sister-in-law, Donna Butler, has been diagnosed with an
aggressive form of cancer. The doctors will be meeting this week to
formulate a treatment plan, but surgery is tentatively scheduled for
Thursday.

This has been kind of a double-whammy for us. Although what we are doing
here is at a critical stage, it has been very difficult to want to be
here, especially this past week. We trust that God will hear our prayers
and will give us peace, but it still is difficult when our families are
hurting and we are thousands of miles away.

**Prayer points:**

-   Pray for our families. Pray for Jeff to heal quickly and for the
    long-term results of the surgery to be as positive as the short-term
    results seem to be. Pray for a successful surgery for Donna and a
    smooth recovery for her. Pray for family members who are reeling
    from the enormity of this sudden diagnosis. In both cases pray for
    God to step in and heal both Jeff and Donna completely.

-   Pray for the continuing work on the Waran New Testament. We are
    really feeling the time pressure. We have only two more weeks to
    work before Samuel needs to return home to his family for a while

Thank you for standing with us in prayer,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
