**Take Two - March 11, 2018**

**William and Robin Butler**

Friday morning at 7:30 a small aircraft began taxiing away from the
Missionary Aviation Fellowship hangar in Madang. On board was Samuel
Sangon, chief Waran translator and editor of the Waran New Testament. He
had been in Madang for five and a half weeks working furiously with me
to finalize the text of the New Testament. During the time he was in
town we focused on cleaning up as many of the spelling issues as we
possibly could. The translation software available to us now enables us
to build a list of all the unique words used in the Waran New Testament.
It also will help us find words that might be variant spellings of the
same word and makes it easier to find other types of errors.  Here's the
kind of thing that happened as we translated book-by-book over several
years:

The verb **give** is a very common verb in the Waran New Testament. It
would take a while to calculate the total number of times some form of
that word occurs but it is hundreds. I know that there are more than 60
unique forms of the word used. "He gives" is written **mañit** in Waran.
But there is a short form that is used frequently in daily conversation
that drops the initial ma- and just writes **ñit**. As we translated
through the books sometimes translators would use **mañit** and
sometimes they would write **ñit**. Sometimes Samuel would catch it and
change the form but often not, since both were acceptable. Multiply that
variation by 60+ forms and you have a lot of variations. Samuel decided
during this session that in the New Testament we should only write the
longer form. I concurred because, while the people in Samuel's village
often use the shorter form, other villages are much less likely to
shorten the words so they would find the longer form easier to read.

I told Samuel that since these were consistent and regular changes, I
would do the grunt work of changing them, while he could do things that
required his special skills. Another part of the translation software
allows us to very quickly see the words we are changing in the context
where they are occurring before we agree to make the change. As I worked
through the lists, I found that in some of its short forms "give" was
very similar to some forms of "kill" and, due to misspelling, there was
confusing crossover. For example, **ñekamagɨn** means "He gave long
ago," while **nekamagɨn** means "He killed long ago." That's kind of a
big difference in meaning but a very small and easily ignored difference
in writing. In the hundreds of forms of **give** that I have already
reviewed, I've only found a handful of mistakes but even one is too
many, as far as I am concerned. In other places the short form of
**give** overlaps with some forms of **wash**. So as tedious as it might
be, we will keep going through the lists until we are convinced that
every word is spelled correctly and used correctly.

The same things could have been done years ago with less sophisticated
computer tools but it took hours or days to get what we now get just
with a mouse click or two. Maybe you could think of it like this. In our
lifetimes we have always had the ability to check the spelling of any
word we wished to write. We just had to get out the dictionary and look
it up. Now computer software runs in the background as we are writing
and immediately tells us if we have misspelled a word. As a result most
of us rarely have misspelled words in what we write. (Unless, of course,
we fool the spellchecker by writing another correctly spelled word!!) We
are now able to catch most of these errors in the Waran New Testament
and are also inclined to do so because it has become much simpler and
easier to do so.

When Samuel came to town we had almost 4900 words that we hadn't
reviewed and corrected; when he left only 720 unreviewed words remained.

We also cleared a number of flags that represented places in the text
where we needed to do further work to correct the text, to smooth it out
so is flowed better and was more readable, or to simplify the structure
so that ordinary village folks could understand it more easily. I wasn't
as diligent in tracking how many of the flags we cleared but we did
clear all of the ones that were created in various reviews last year and
several of the older ones as well.

As the plane taxiing away from the hangar, part of me was screaming,
"Samuel, don't go. Stay and let's keep working. We're really clicking
together and rolling along." But another part of me was breathing a huge
sigh of relief! There is a time for everything, including a time to rest
and refresh. There was no doubt that our work was beginning to suffer
due to fatigue. Samuel needs time back at home. But he said he'd be
ready to come back after Easter so we are aiming for April 4 to begin
working together again.

For at least part of the time that Samuel is gone, I will be working
with Max Kamgru on the Waran literacy materials. I will also be building
new lists of things yet to do so Samuel and I can focus on those when he
returns.

Prayer Points:

-   Continue to pray for Jeff and Donna, their families and their
    caregivers. As Samuel has often prayed in the last few weeks,
    "Father, we know you are the Head Doctor. You made our bodies and
    you know how to heal them." We trust in God to hear our prayers and
    act according to his will and give us the grace to accept his
    answer. But Jesus in the Parable of the Persistent Widow encouraged
    us to be persistent in our requests and not easily give up. Pray for
    us too that we might have peace while being so far away.

-   Thank God for the work that has already been done on the Waran New
    Testament, especially that done by Samuel. Ask him to grant Samuel a
    wonderful, refreshing time at home.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
