**Take Two - March 18, 2018**

**William & Robin Butler**

The nature of the work we do is often described as a three-legged stool.
One leg is translation; the second is literacy; the third is Scripture
in use. You know what happens if one leg of a three-legged stool fails,
right? You very quickly find yourself on the floor in a heap.

The translation work involves getting God's word into a new language.
You've heard a lot about that because that is where most of our effort
has been directed in the last few years.

Literacy encompasses everything involved in getting the speakers of a
language to read and write well in their language. With the Waran
people, in one sense, we have had to start from scratch because they
didn't have a written language before we began. But, in other ways, we
haven't started from nothing. Through the efforts of missionaries who
preceded us and some government schools, a number of people learned to
read and write in Tok Pisin or English. Of course, how well they did
with the skill varies a great deal. But at least they have already
learned the concept that letters on a piece of paper can represent
spoken language and they know the sounds of those letters. For folks
like that, learning to read in Waran is much easier because they can
transfer those skills to their own language. Mostly they just need to
learn whether the sounds the letters represent in Waran are the same as
what they learned in the other language or if they are different. Of
course, they also have to learn a couple of letters that are necessary
to write Waran but are not used in either Tok Pisin or English.

Max Kamgru is the primary Waran worker in literacy. He has been working
for several months now to develop an advanced curriculum for teaching
the other major group of Waran speakers how to read and write Waran.
That other group is the children who haven't been to school yet. The
beginning curriculum was developed years ago when Robin's sister Lynn
came as a literacy worker among the Waran. It gets the children started
on the literacy road. What Max is working on now will advance those
initial skills so the children achieve full literacy in Waran.

Max returned home on Friday after working for a month in town. He
completed the translation of all the small booklets that are the reading
resources in the new curriculum and revised several that had been
written before. There are more than 100 of those booklets in the
curriculum. He took along a tape recorder so that the songs he has
written for the curriculum can be recorded by a small groups of Waran
speakers. The recording will help other teachers use these songs as
teaching tools with the children.

While Max is in the village he will also be working with the adults in
the first group. They know the New Testament is coming soon so they
asked Max to train them to read better in Waran than they currently do.
That they asked is a very positive development because it speaks to the
third leg of the stool. If they didn't intend to use the New Testament,
why would they want to read better?

After Samuel left town, I shifted gears to work with Max this past week.
I have been adding the text from all the booklets in the curriculum to
Paratext, the translation software, so that the literacy materials can
be spell-checked and made consistent with the New Testament. I will
continue to work on that so that when Samuel returns he can help me
check them.

On another note, at the request of our Director, Bethaney and I will be
travelling on Monday to represent PBT at a gathering of several missions
to discuss mutual security concerns and how we might work together and
support one another should any crisis develop.  While we hope such a
situation would never arise, it is better to be prepared in case it
does. We will be driving and it is wet season. We already know that
there are some bad spots on the road that could be difficult to navigate
or slow us down. Then on Thursday we will travel back on the same road.

**Prayer Points:**

-   Praise God that the paperwork for our new colleagues that we asked
    you to pray about several weeks ago has finally been approved.
    Maclain and Kaitlin should be joining us soon. Robin is doing
    cartwheels (in her mind at least!).

-   Praise God for Max and his commitment to helping his people learn to
    read and write in Waran, whether they be young children or adults.

-   Pray for safety and passable roads for Bethaney and I. Pray for
    fruitful discussions at the meeting.

**Health Report for Family:**

-   Jeff has continued to gain strength. He will be beginning another
    series of chemo treatments this week.

-   Donna has been having difficulty breathing and is back in the
    hospital now. Pray that she will begin to breath better and will be
    able to go home soon.

-   For both Jeff and Donna pray for complete healing. Our God is the
    great physician and he can confound the wisdom and experience of
    even the best doctors.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
