**Take Two - March 4, 2018**

**William and Robin Butler**

This has been a great week of progress in finalizing the Waran New
Testament. The number of unreviewed words dropped from 2,466 to 1,355,
largely through Samuel's efforts. We also dealt with a significant
number of the flags that signal areas of the text that at some point in
the past we haven't been entirely happy with. Some of these came from
consultant checking sessions, or village reviews, or from questions that
I have raised while reading through the text.

This is Samuel's last week to work in town. On Friday, Lord willing, he
will return home after five and a half weeks away. We are working so
well at the moment that we really don't want to stop but it is time for
him to go back home for a few weeks.

In our extended families this has been a tumultuous week. Robin's nephew
Jeff continued to recover from his major surgery. Though it took longer
than anticipated for him to reach the markers he needed to reach before
he could be discharged, by the end of the week he was back home, to
continue his recovery there and gain energy for further treatment.

My sister-in-law Donna had major surgery on Thursday to remove the tumor
in her abdomen. That was successfully done. However, explorations to
nearby organs gave indications that weren't positive. She is still in
hospital recovering. When she is able, there will be further testing to
determine the next course of action. As you can imagine, this wasn't
what anyone wanted to hear, least of all my brother and their daughter.

Prayer Points:

-   Pray for Samuel and me as we work these final four days. May we work
    well together and have excellent focus and concentration to solve
    some of the difficult problems that we have flagged in the past.

-   Pray for continued healing for Jeff.

-   Pray that Donna will be able to quickly recover from her surgery and
    have strength for what lies ahead. Petition our Father for merciful
    healing for her and comfort for her family.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
