**Take Two -- April 8, 2018**

**William & Robin Butler**

This week we began to actively pursue our return to PNG. We finalized
our travel plans. We said goodbye to our family in Tennessee on
Wednesday and travelled to Kentucky. We began gathering the future
content of our suitcases in one place to prepare for packing. It's a
mundane but necessary part of going from one place to another.

More importantly, we have been spending time with various members of
Robin's family. If we have learned nothing else the last month, we have
learned that we don't know how much time we have with our loved ones.
Therefore, we need to take advantage of the limited opportunities we
have.

We were hoping that Samuel would come in on a flight that went out to
Waran land on Wednesday, but he didn't. However, on Thursday he called
the PBT office to work out travel plans. It seems that in spite of our
planning and practice, Samuel had difficulty getting messages on his
communication device so he caught a ride to the nearest small town to
call in. With calls and emails, we were able to make arrangements for
Samuel to arrive in Madang about the same time we return.

Prayer points:

-   Pray that we will use our remaining time in the US in wise ways and
    for the best purposes.

-   Pray for continued comfort and healing for our family members and
    ourselves.

Update on Jeff, Robin\'s nephew - He has had his second round of chemo
since his major surgery.  Please pray for continued healing. 

Early Thursday morning the father of Robin\'s brother Terry\'s wife
Kathy, passed away. Please pray for our family as we deal with another
loss in our extended family.

Thank you for your prayers.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write
to <wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our
ministry, checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so
at [https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler) or
you can contact us for details.*
