**Take Two - April 1, 2018**

**William & Robin Butler**

It has been a long but short week and a half.  Monday morning, 19 March,
as expected, William and Bethaney made their way to Goroka to represent
PBT at a gathering of several missions to discuss mutual security
concerns and how we might work together and support one another should
any crisis develop. The trip was long but went well.  Monday evening,
(Sunday, March 18 US time) we received news that the doctor had given
Donna a severely shortened future. The cancer was overwhelming her at an
exceedingly fast rate.

William called and talked with his brother and decided that we should
return to the US.  Tuesday morning, William and Bethaney started their
trip back to Madang.  After two flat tires and 4 hours waiting to cross
a bad section of the road and nearly 12 hours on the road, they arrived
back in Madang at 10 pm.  During this time Robin made bookings for the
three of us to LA.  It took most of the day, but tickets were bought for
a reasonable price considering the last-minute purchase.  While waiting
at the bad spot in the road, Bethaney noticed that she had a good phone
signal, so she was able to use her phone to make our booking from LA to
Louisville, KY. We arrived at the airport in Madang at 5:30 AM Wednesday
morning and flew as directly as possible. Half way through our trip we
got word that Donna had lost her short battle with a very aggressive
cancer. By 2 AM Thursday morning we had landed in Louisville, KY.  We
slept a few hours and then drove to Maryville, TN, where we met
William\'s family at the funeral home for a viewing.

Donna lived only 46 days from the time she was diagnosed with what
turned out to be an exceedingly rare and aggressive cancer.  The
prognosis went rapidly from 5-6 months, to 3-6 months, to some days or
weeks, to 4-10 days. She lived 3 of those days. She passed peacefully
surrounded by her husband and daughter. We are sorry we didn\'t make it
back in time to say our farewells but glad that we have come home to be
with our family at this time.  William's brother James and his daughter
Megan are doing as well as anyone can under these circumstances.
Hundreds of friends and family have surrounded them in support, in
prayer, and in comforting love.

We wanted to send this out last weekend but with the funeral on Saturday
and the burial on Sunday, we just weren't up to it. We are so thankful
for your faithful prayers for Donna and all of us through this very
difficult time. We did not receive the answer we had hoped for from the
Lord, but in his wisdom, he gave Donna complete and permanent healing.
We are thankful for your continued prayers for our family, especially
James and Megan, on whom Donna's passing has the most profound effect.

We will be here in TN a couple more days, then go to Kentucky for about
a week, then a couple of days with our son and daughter-in-law in
Seattle then we will return to PNG.

Samuel is scheduled to come to Madang on April 4^th^ to work with
William.  There are several things that he can do on his own until our
return. William can send assignments to him that he can work on just as
if they were sitting side-by-side.

Prayer points:

1.  Pray that Samuel will make the flight. We have sent several messages
    to him, but he hasn't yet responded.

2.  Continue to pray for the Butler family and our friends as we
    continue to mourn and adjust to our loss.

We pray you have a Blessed Easter, remembering the victory of our Lord
and Savior over the grave. 

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write
to <wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our
ministry, checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so
at [https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler) or
you can contact us for details.*
