Take Two - April 22, 2018

William & Robin Butler

We returned to PNG on Wednesday. We flew without any layovers after
leaving Tyler and Autumn in Seattle. Our flight out of Australia was
late so we had to run to catch our flight from Port Moresby to Madang,
but we made it. For some reason, the trip seemed a lot more draining
than usual and we have spent most of the intervening days trying to
recover.

The same afternoon that we arrived in Madang, Samuel arrived in Wewak
from his village. The next morning, we arranged for him to fly
commercially to Madang Friday morning. He arrived about as exhausted as
we were. He had the long canoe trip to get to the road, then bounced
around in the back of a truck to get to Wewak. Because of security
concerns, he hardly slept while in Wewak.

Together we agreed that we'd spend the weekend recovering and start
fresh Monday morning. We are really looking forward to getting back to
work together.

Prayer points:

-   Pray for William and Samuel as they work on the final revisions of
    the Waran New Testament.

-   Continue to pray for our families in the US, especially Jeff as he
    undergoes chemotherapy with increasing side-effects; James and Megan
    as they continue to grieve and adjust after Donna's death, and Terry
    and Kathy and their family as they mourn the loss of Kathy's father.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write
to <wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our
ministry, checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so
at [https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler) or
you can contact us for details.*
