**Take Two - April 29, 2018**

**William and Robin Butler**

It is really hard to believe that only one week has passed since the
last Take Two. It seems like so very much longer! It is also hard to
believe that we have only been back in PNG for 11 days now. They say,
\"Time flies when you are having fun.\" If that is true, then it must
also be true that time slows down when you aren't having fun! It feels
like that is where we have been this week.

Monday was a crusher for me. There are certain days that always seem
harder to me: the first day of any new work session for Samuel and I,
any Monday, any major holiday, days when I don't feel well. Monday was a
perfect storm of all those things. I was still dragging around
physically with whatever had been troubling me since we arrived back.
The "holiday" was my birthday. I am not depressed by the passing of
birthdays, but by the lack of ways in which to celebrate here. We did
the best we could and it was a nice celebration with Bethaney and other
friends. I really stumbled along until Thursday when I began to feel
energy coming back and clear thinking returning.

In spite of all that, Samuel and I have managed to get some of the book
introductions drafted and several spelling issues resolved. Samuel spent
a couple of days reversing spelling changes I have made at his request
as he was leaving town in March. I had followed his instructions but,
when he began to read through some of the changes, he did not like the
way the words sounded and decided they shouldn't have been changed. I
know you are probably as tired of hearing about spelling issues as I am
about dealing with them. I am indebted to a colleague who recently wrote
this about the issues we are dealing with: "Remember that these
languages weren't even written down before Bible translation and
literacy work started, so spelling "rules" and conventions are still
developing, making consistent spelling an often elusive goal." It is
good to be reminded of where we started and why we are having these
issues. I have also thought about what I found when I looked through
census records for my family from the last half of the 1800's---the
spelling of our straightforward English surname wasn't always so
straightforward for the census takers, with Buttler, Butlar, Buttlar
being among the alternates I have found.  Even though English had been
written for hundreds of years, the census takers were still having
trouble spelling correctly.  Elusive though it may be, we still pursue
the goal of consistent spelling anyway.

Robin also had a difficult week workwise. She has run into a major issue
that has caused her a good deal of stress and distress. That issue will
have to be sorted out in the coming days and perhaps weeks.

**Prayer points:**

-   Praise the Lord that Samuel and I have gotten off to a good, if
    somewhat slow and rocky, start. Pray that our work rhythm will
    develop this week and we accelerate to our usual pace. Pray for our
    good health, especially for Samuel's family who remain in the
    village and at different schools.

-   Praise that the major issue in the area of Robin's work
    responsibilities has come to light. Pray that Robin and the Director
    with be able to move the situation to a good resolution in a short
    amount of time.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write
to <wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our
ministry, checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so
at [https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler) or
you can contact us for details.*
