**Take Two - May 20, 2018**

**William & Robin Butler**

Today is Pentecost Sunday. It is a day on the church calendar that
sometimes seems to be overlooked. I don't know if we should celebrate it
as a special day or not, but we ought to at least think about what
happened on the first Pentecost after Jesus' resurrection.

The special days that God included in the Law weren't there just because
everyone likes to celebrate. God was building into his people certain
ways of thinking about the interaction taking place between them and God
and between them and the world around them. As an example, Passover
celebrated God's provision to rescue the firstborn children of the
Israelites from the death angel. Later God drew on that imagery that had
firmly been planted in Jewish minds for centuries by arranging for Jesus
to be crucified at Passover. Christ became the Passover lamb not just
for the Jews but for all humanity. The Passover feast helps us to access
some of the significance of Jesus' death. He rescued us from the certain
death that our sin brings into our lives.

Pentecost in the Old Testament is called the Feast of Weeks or the
Harvest Festival. Right after Passover was the Festival of Firstfruits
that celebrated the beginning of the barley harvest. From that day,
seven weeks were counted off then the next day was the Feast of Weeks.
This day celebrated God's provision in the barley harvest that had just
been completed and offered to God the firstfruits of the wheat harvest
that was just beginning. By New Testament times, this feast had gained a
new name, Pentecost what means "fiftieth" in Greek.

On Pentecost, the old way of relating people to God through the Old
Testament law with its sacrifices, rules and regulations was drawing to
a close. The new way for people to relate to God through Jesus Christ
was publicly announced. Those who responded to the message that day were
the firstfruits of a much greater harvest to come. God could easily have
caused everything that happened on Pentecost to happen on some other
day, but he wanted to draw on that rich symbolism that had been
ingrained through centuries.

I don't want to give you a whole sermon so I'll just summarize the
significant events of Pentecost:

-   The Holy Spirit did not make his first appearance on Pentecost. He
    was present at creation and, throughout the Old Testament, he
    engaged with people for specific purposes and for specific times. On
    Pentecost, the Holy Spirit arrived with a new mission. He no longer
    would come and go but would remain 24/7 with each believer in
    Christ. He would empower each Christian to grow and produce fruit
    and accomplish the mission of Christ in the world.

-   On Pentecost, the first gospel message was preached. During his
    ministry Jesus went everywhere telling people the good news that the
    kingdom of God was coming and it was already near. It was an
    awareness campaign to get everyone ready for what was about to
    happen. On Pentecost, it happened. The full gospel message was
    preached. It revealed to people the new way of relating to God,
    including the remedy for sin and the access to the Holy Spirit
    available through accepting Christ as savior.

-   On Pentecost, the first people responded to the gospel and became
    part of the new people of God related to him not through laws but
    through faith in Jesus Christ. In that way, the kingdom was ushered
    in and the church began. Those 3000 were the firstfruits of a much
    larger harvest that was coming and is still going on.

Because of Pentecost, the celebrations of Christmas and Easter find
meaning. We now know why Jesus came and why he died. It was because of
us. He wanted us in the family. Pentecost tells us how to get there and
enables us to stay there.

Prayer Points:

-   Praise God that Samuel and I have completed our review of Hebrews.
    We are confident it is ready for publication now. We have just two
    more weeks to go before Samuel return home but we still have much to
    do.

-   Max is on his way to town and should be here on Monday. Pray for him
    as he picks up the literacy work again. He will also bring with him
    a report of his time in the village which included encouraging
    reading fluency for those who would like to be involved in recording
    the New Testament.

-   Pray for Robin. In her work right now it seems to be 3 steps forward
    and 2 back. There is still progress being made but it is much slower
    than anyone would like.

God Bless,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
