**Take Two - May 27, 2018**

**William and Robin Butler**

**\"A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step\"** is said
to have been based on an ancient Chinese proverb attributed to Lao Tzu,
a contemporary of Confucius, "A journey of a thousand, begins beneath
one's feet." It isn't the beginning of the 1,000 mile journey that we
are on that concerns me. It is clear that one day in 1979 we said,
"Yes," to God's call to the Waran people and so began the journey.

What concerns me now is how to keep going after milepost 997. Many miles
have passed by and even more steps. The legs are leaden. The brain
screams, "I can't think about one more problem. I can't make one more
decision!" Yet, it must. The end of the journey is just over the next
little rise but that rise looks like Everest to the weary.

"Weeping may remain for the night, but joy comes with the morning."
(Psalm 30:5). Joy comes in the morning certainly, but when will morning
come? I know it will be soon, but I also know it won't be tomorrow or
the day after that. Anticipating certain joy sustains us here at
milepost 997. (I just looked up from my computer to the bookshelf in
front of me and staring back at me was this title, *Say Goodbye to
Whining*. Could it be a sign?)

How will we complete the journey? The same way we began it. The same way
we have gotten so far down the track. One step at a time. Then one day
that step will be the final step in this particular journey and joy will
flood us.

Thank you for your continuing prayers. Without a doubt that is an energy
source of inestimable value for us. May the Lord bless you for your
faithfulness.

Our journey this week has taken us deeper into the recording process.
Samuel has begun Matthew. Max has learned how to record as well. He is
practicing so that he will be able to teach others who will arrive next
week. Since the recording is relatively new, it seems very interesting
and exciting to all of us, especially Samuel and I who have been
slogging along for weeks now. Right now it is after-hours work,
something the guys do when they complete their primary tasks.

Max is also learning to use Paratext, the software we use to manage the
New Testament work. We have put all of the literacy materials into that
software so that some of the same powerful tools can be used on them.

I had a pleasant little shock this week. I went to the Wordlist to see
what words had not yet been marked as correct and found NONE! Samuel, in
his usual quiet manner, had finished the list and hadn't said a word.
I'm still checking through to see if I agree with all his decisions or
if there are words we need to talk about yet, but the hardest part is
completed. Now when we run the spellchecker it returns zero errors. That
is a definite indicator of progress. It is great to have that completed
before Samuel returns home on Friday. Also, we can now use the Wordlist
to check the spelling of the literacy materials to make sure the
spellings there match those used in the New Testament.

Prayer Points:

-   Pray that all of us can keep on keeping on. The journey is long and
    progress not usually as much as we'd like. Both Robin and I feel the
    disappointment of that in our respective roles. Thank God for the
    little encouraging things that sustain us, like a completed wordlist
    or a work permit received.

-   Thank God for Samuel and Max. Both are very dedicated to the work
    they are doing. Samuel is great in the trenches day after day. Max
    just keeps on thinking about how the literacy work can be done
    better and who else needs to be reached. It is certain that without
    their collaboration in this work, we would collapse.

Thank you for standing with us in prayer,

William and Robin

Thank you for your continued prayers for Robin\'s nephew, Jeff, in his
battle with cancer.  This past week they found out that one kidney is
not functioning.  Pray for the doctors as they try to figure out what is
going on.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
