Take Two - May 6, 2018

William & Robin Butler

Well, this week was definitely shorter than last week so we must have
been having more fun! Probably not but we were better adjusted and more
in rhythm. Samuel and I spent the bulk of the week working on the
introductions to the New Testaments books. You may think it odd that we
are spending time writing and translating introductions to each book.
After all, they are not part of Scripture. That is certainly true. My
primary motivation is to help the readers. Most of them have had little,
if any, teaching about the context or purpose of the books in the New
Testament. They also don't have access to commentaries or other helps
from which to gain that information. The introductions provide basic
information to help them understand who wrote the book and why. If no
one else reads the introductions, the pastors and teachers will. And
that information can help them anchor their teaching in historical
reality. That is how God delivered his message to people---through
people to people living, thinking, and operating in real situations in
what is now history to us. Though we haven't finished the introductions
yet, Samuel and I will move to spending the majority of our time this
week work on clearing notes. A steady diet of creating and translating
introductions gets stifling after a while! Referring to the work on the
introductions, Samuel told one of our colleagues this week: I thought we
were done with translation but now we are doing it again.

For Robin, there was progress in resolving some of the difficult
situation this week. Praise the Lord for that. Ultimate resolution is
likely to take some weeks yet. She doesn't have back all the approvals
that are needed yet, so there is still much need for prayer.

Prayer Points:

-   Praise for Samuel and his commitment to finishing the task. Pray for
    his family too. It isn't easy to have him gone as much as he will
    have to be gone over the next few months. This is an ongoing prayer
    point.

-   Pray for the processing of critical applications to be completed and
    returned to Robin soon.

Blessings,

William and Robin

Report on Jeff True: He had a follow-up with the surgeon this week with
a full exam. Everything looks good and there are currently no signs of
cancer in his body. Yea, Lord! Keep up the prayers please.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
