**Take Two - May 13, 2018**

**William & Robin Butler**

Hebrews 5:7 says:

**During the days of Jesus\' life on earth, he offered up prayers and
petitions with loud cries and tears to the one who could save him from
death, and he was heard because of his reverent submission** (*NIV*).

Typically, when God \"hears\" a prayer, he does whatever the person is
asking, and grants the request. In fact, that is part of the meaning of
the Greek word used here, which has been defined as meaning "to listen
to someone, with the implication of heeding and responding to what is
heard." Other sources add the idea of "positively responding" to the
definition. For example, take the case of Cornelius. In Acts 10:30-33
Cornelius tells Peter how it was that he sent men to fetch him from
Joppa. He includes that the angel told him, "Cornelius, God has heard
your prayer..." The angel says that then gives Cornelius instructions on
where to find Peter (who God will prepare for Cornelius' request, Acts
10:9-16). Before long Peter arrives and the Gospel is preached to
Cornelius and his household and they accept Christ. When God heard
Cornelius, he responded positively.

The Greek word used in Acts 10:31 is the same one used in Hebrews 5:7.
If the same word is used in very similar contexts, it is reasonable to
think that the meaning is the same in both places. We may not be certain
what specific request of Jesus the writer is referring to, but since he
is directing his prayers to "the one who could save him from death," it
would seem that the request has something to do with Jesus avoiding
death. And we do know that Jesus asked God about that in Gethsemane.
Putting all this together, what gives me pause is that the Greek word
used causes me to think that God heard and is responding positively to
Christ's request about escaping death, yet he definitely died. How can
that be?

Jesus had to die because the blood of a perfect sacrifice was required
to pay for all of humanity's sins and to ratify God's new covenant with
humanity. His blood poured out as required, and so, of course, he was
dead. So he did not get what he asked for, did he? But---and this is the
part I really like---Jesus didn't have to STAY DEAD like all the other
sacrifices that had gone before him, did he? No, he didn't! So God
answered his prayer positively and gave him back his life, a glorious
eternal life far better than the one he had before. And I'm so glad.
Aren't you?

*I'm still thinking about this verse, so we might have to visit it
again. It is such a rich verse in the context of all of Hebrews.*

Samuel and I spent most of the week in the book of Hebrews. Hebrews was
the first major epistle we translated so we've found several places
where we've thought, "What's there is okay, but we can do it better
now." That is why we wanted to work through it one more time before
publication. In the process of clearing the notes there, I came across
several Notes To Self \-- little thoughts and observations (like the one
above) that came to me as we were translating the book several years
ago. It has been a little bit like a treasure hunt going through the
text again.

This week we also received some training in recording Scripture from our
PBT colleagues who were previously involved in recording a New
Testament. Samuel caught on quickly and is trying to record *Philemon*
over the weekend to lock in the new skill. We'll find out Monday how
that went. He only called me once so I'm thinking that it must be going
pretty well.

Prayer Points:

-   Praise God for all the progress made on getting Hebrews finalized
    for publication.

-   Pray that those who can participate in the recording of the New
    Testament will be diligent about practicing their out-loud reading
    so that when the main recording begins they will be fluent readers.

Happy Mother\'s Day to all you mothers out there.

Have a blessed week,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
