**Take Two - June 17, 2018**

**William & Robin Butler**

The first three days of this week, the recording continued. All but one
of the recordists finished their second book.

On Thursday and Friday we gathered as a group and listened to all of the
recordings, carefully following the written text to confirm that the
recording exactly matched it. Where there were mis-readings, we had to
evaluate whether the error was in the recording or in the written text.
It is quite possible for a person reading a text to read the right
thing, even if the text has an grammatical error or an unnatural phrase
in it. So we don't assume that the written text is always right.

Where the error was in the recording, we carefully noted the location of
the error so that the sentence could be recorded. There were several
such errors, but overall the readers did a commendable job. Their
progress as readers was also evident since the later recordings were
much better than the initial ones.

Where the error was in the written text, we either corrected it or we
made a note to discuss a change with Samuel. The recordists weren't
always sure of the best way to correct what they perceived to be an
error, so they deferred to Samuel.

In this coming week, the men will re-record the sentences with errors
then move on to new material.

Our prayer points this week aren't directly connected to our work but
concern our families. However, there is a connection. What is going on
with our families does affect our well-being and, therefore, our ability
to do our work well.

Prayer Points:

-   Today (Sunday morning in PNG; Saturday afternoon in Tennessee), my
    mother fell at home. She was taken to the hospital and found to have
    a hip fracture. She will be having surgery Sunday morning around
    10:00 to insert some screws to stabilize the fracture. We thank the
    Lord that the damage wasn't greater than it was. Please pray for her
    as she recovers and for my dad and other family members as they
    provide care for her.

-   Robin's nephew Jeff has completed Round 11 of his chemotherapy. His
    counts were too low to allow for the usual treatment to be given so
    one of the drugs was left out. Please keep Jeff and his family in
    your prayers, specifically that Jeff stays healthy, his counts can
    recover, and he can finish out his last round in two weeks. They are
    expecting to do a scan in early August to see where things stand.

Thank you for your prayers,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
