Take Two - June 24, 2018

If you've been following us for a while, you know that much of our work
is cyclical in nature. It can seem like we are just going around in
circles.

As we reported last week, at the end of the week we reviewed all the
recordings that we had made so far and came up with a list of verses or
parts of verses that needed to be recorded again. The guys spent most of
Monday and Tuesday re-recording. Then they wanted to start on some new
material so they each worked in a new book on Wednesday and Thursday. On
Friday, we listened to the first chapter in each of the new books and
noted all the places that needed to be re-recorded. This week they will
re-record the necessary verses in chapter one and then continue on with
other chapters.

Of course, each re-recording must also be listened to and sometimes
those have to be recorded yet again. So round and round we go. But like
tires on a vehicle, going round and round moves us forward.

This week I will be working on preparing small books with the text from
each of the recorded books. Then we will print multiple copies of each
so that when the men return home they can take the recordings and the
books with them.  When people gather to listen to the recordings, each
person can have a copy of each book to follow along as they listen. If I
get really ambitious, I may create some short questions to go with each
book to help people focus on the key points.

All this is leading to the men returning home around July 3rd.

Samuel, his wife, their son Eutychus, and their adopted daughter are
coming to town soon. They may even be on their way now. Eutychus has had
a growth on his head for some time and we want to have him checked out
by the surgeon here in Madang. There is a school break this week and
next so that he won't be missing so much school. We wanted to send an
MAF plane for them but, due to regular maintenance and pilot shortage,
no flights were available last week or this week. So, they will travel
by river and by road to the coastal town of Wewak and fly commercially
from there. It\'s not the ideal way to travel but necessary to work
within the school break schedule. Of course, Samuel will be doing
translation work while he is here.

William's mother was released from the hospital after a successful
surgery to install some screws in her fractured hip. She is currently in
a rehabilitation facility to recover further and gain strength before
returning home.

Prayer Points:

-   Praise God for the continuing good progress on the recording and for
    the preparations that are under way to send the men back to the
    village with both audio and written forms of these books

-   Pray for Samuel and family as they travel. Pray that the surgeon
    will be able to offer a good assessment of the growth and have
    wisdom to determine what treatment, if any, can be given.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
