**Take Two - June 10, 2018**

**William & Robin Butler**

No time this week for being bored. In fact, I was busier than a
one-armed paper hanger all week long.

As I told you last week, 4 recordists arrived on Friday to start
recording. Max worked with them over the weekend to familiarize them
with the basics of the recording process. Most had never had anything to
do with computers so a little bit of hands-on experience was very
helpful.

Monday was a declared a practice day. We hadn't intended it to be so but
there was too much construction noise going on around the office for the
guys to make useable recordings. It didn't really matter because they
needed the hands-on repetitions of the procedure to get it firmly fixed
in their heads. I spent much of my time trying to get two more computers
set up for the recordists to use, but was ultimately thwarted when I ran
into programs that had to be set-up by someone with the right network
permissions. At the end of the day we had a group session in which we
listened to each recordist's work and learned from mistakes and helpful
comments.

Tuesday our IT expert was back in town but even with his help it still
took several hours to work out all the kinks and get two more computers
set to go. Meanwhile the guys began recording their chosen books for
real. They were still sharing computers but each made progress on his
recording.

Wednesday another nemesis entered the scene. Rain and lots of it. That
certainly helped keep construction noises to a minimum! However, there
is no way to squelch the sound of heavy rain on a tin roof. I was able
to use what we learned while getting computers setup on Tuesday to set
up another computer for the recordist. Now each has a computer dedicated
to him and Max and I each have our computers back to carry on with other
work.

Thursday and Friday were both production days. By the end of the week
each of the recordist had finished a short book and started on a longer
one. Each records at his own pace, with several do-overs per verse. But
they are making steady progress and getting better at making a good
recording on the first attempt.

I quickly saw that we were going to need some system to keep track of
what had been recorded and whether it had been reviewed by the team and
then by me. So I designed a tracking system to help with that. Max is
already making notes anytime the recordists run into something they
wanted to discuss in the text. He is also doing a fantastic job helping
the weaker recorders notice and correct their errors.

I also make sure that each day's recording gets back-up on our server so
that none of the recorded verses get lost. That is an everyday job, as
is listening to what has been recorded and making notes about blocks
that need to be recorded again.

I think this week we'll be able to make much faster progress. The
construction around our office should be over by Tuesday giving a
quieter recording environment. Each person now has the recording process
down and are able to work independently for long stretched.

I have also received several messages form Samuel on our communication
devise this week. He is doing well and getting ready to return to town
in about two weeks.

Prayer Points:

-   Pray for Matthew, Chris, Kaius, and Paul as they record this week.
    They need to remain healthy with strong voices. And they need to be
    able to focus on a level of detail that helps them read correctly
    and catch errors when they make them.

-   Pray for Max and I as we manage the recording. We want to encourage
    the recordists as much as possible but be able to point out areas of
    concern in helpful ways that will be received well.

Thank you for standing with us in prayer,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
