Take Two - June 3, 2018

William and Robin Butler

This has been quite a week. Max was in full swing revising literacy
books and progressing on the new curriculum. Samuel and I were pushing
to clear as many notes as possible before he returned home. The books of
Matthew and Hebrews have now been completely cleared. Both Max and
Samuel were continuing to develop skills in recording. Although the
process is fairly simple, there seem to be several ways in which things
can go wrong. But with more practice, things started to go better.
Samuel managed to finish 7 chapters of Matthew before he left.

The end of the week was especially intense for me. In addition to
keeping track of all the above, I worked on updating literacy materials
requested by Samson Batme. Samson works as a literacy teacher in the
most remote area of the language group where the need for education is
greatest. It took me most of Wednesday night and all of Thursday night
to get materials for terms 2 and 3 ready for him. He is working with
both children and adults. He reported that that many of those who attend
his adult classes are not believers. He requested a Scripture portion
that he could give to each student so they could read it together. I
developed a booklet with illustrations to accompany the story of the
Prodigal Son and printed a 100 copies for him. Also, I sent other
booklets of Matthew 1-7 and Philemon. I had planned to send copies of
the audio recording of those chapters so they could listen and follow
along but simply ran out of time to get that done.

Samuel was able to return home on Friday. His flight was the first
flight of the day so he got to Likan in plenty of time to make it the
rest of the way home.

On the return flight 4 Waran men came into town to serve as recorders.
This group is a bit of an experiment since we weren't able to do any
testing with them prior to their arrival. I left the decision on who
should come in with Max and Samuel. We'll just have to see how it goes.
I suspect we will all be learning together this week. Max will be able
to help explain the recording process to them from his perspective as a
person with a little bit of experience. Looking forward to the
adventure....

Robin has also had her hands full of work. The difficult situation she
has been dealing with for weeks seems to be coming to a final
resolution. That is a relief but has necessitated more work for her.
There has also been a change in government procedures. When that
happens, Robin has to find out what the changes are and figure out how
they impact the works she does. Then she has to revise any of her
procedures that are affected. Robin has been working all weekend to get
various materials ready that need to go to the capital tomorrow morning.
She finally finished about 7 this evening.

Thank you so much for your prayers this week. The gloomy, discouraged
feeling of last weekend quickly passed, no doubt due to your prayers and
notes of encouragement. Though we ended the week completely exhausted,
there is a definite sense of accomplishment and moving forward.

-   Please pray for the 4 men who will be recording this week. Pray that
    they will not be intimidated by the computers they will be using and
    will learn the recording process easily. If they could end the week
    with a few chapters recorded, it would give them a sense of
    accomplishment.

-   Pray that the new paperwork being submitted by Robin this week will
    be accepted and follow a quick path to approval.

God Bless,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
