**Take Two - July 15, 2018**

**William and Robin Butler**

Thank you all so much for continually standing with us in prayer. We
have confidence knowing that we are always being brought before the
Lord. What a blessing you are!

We made some progress on our work this week but not as much as we'd
expected. Both Samuel and I were working around other things for most of
the week.

For me, it was the sickness. I saw the doctor on Monday. He ordered a
bunch of tests and concluded that everything going on with me was
related to my diabetes. I have followed his instructions and seem to be
okay now. We suspect the stressful conclusion of the recording session
just pushed my system a little too far. Praise God that I am back from
the edge.

For Samuel, it was making trips to the hospital with his son. I am
thankful that Bethaney was able to accompany him. Yuticas has now had a
consultation. The doctor said the growth is a cyst that could take 3
minutes or 3 hours to remove. He ordered some x-rays. We will see him
tomorrow to see how complicated the surgery will be and when it will
happen. We expect the surgery to be this week.

This week Samuel and I will continue to work as we can, working around
the times that he will be at the hospital with his son.

**Prayer Points:**

-   Pray that Yuticas's surgery will indeed occur this week. Whether the
    surgery is simple or complex, we trust there will be a good outcome
    to this long-term problem.

-   Pray that, during the times that Samuel and I are able to work, we
    will be able to focus and accomplish much.

Blessings,

William and Robin

Family updates:

-   On Friday, William's mother was released from the rehab facility and
    is now continuing her recovery at home.

-   Robin's nephew, Jeff had his last chemo treatment June 28th. He will
    be having a scan on Monday the 16^th^ and will receive the results
    on Wednesday. Please pray that the scan will show that he is cancer
    free.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
