**Take Two -- July 8, 2018**

**William & Robin Butler**

On Monday, we toured a few stores in town to locate suitable "boom
boxes" for the recordists to take back to the village with them. We
wanted ones that used normal flashlight batteries as a power source but
were large enough to produce a volume that 25-50 people could easily
hear. After trying out a few, we finally found ones that met our
requirements. I purchased one for each of the recordists plus one for
Max. He decided that he would go to the village with the others to
record reactions and feedback from listeners. He will then travel to
where he now lives to have some time with his family before coming back
into town.

Monday I also finalized the Scripture booklets and began printing them.
It takes a long time to print 20 copies of 12 different books!
Fortunately for me, the printer prints them, staples them, and folds
them so they come out as booklets ready for bundling and packing. When
that project finished in the middle of the night, I switched to
preparing the media that would contain the recordings.  I had a couple
of glitches along the way when three books wouldn't convert to the
format required by the boom boxes. But I eventually figured out the
problems. Once I had all 12 books in the right format, I just had to
make the five copies onto flash drives.

Robin and Bethaney came alongside the Waran men to help them prepare
their cargo for the flight. This allowed me to carry on with what I was
doing to get the recordings ready. Then we got the devastating news that
the plane wouldn't be able to carry as much weight as we had planned on.
 After accounting for the body weight of the men, we had only 50 pounds
left for cargo. When the men were told that, they had a little meeting
and unanimously agreed that the most important things to get on the
flight were the boom boxes with flash drives, the Scripture booklets and
Max's computer (to be used for recording corrections and to test new
recordists). Didn't I tell you last week that this was a great bunch of
guys! Each man ended up with 2-3 pounds of personal cargo.

At the airport, I walked out to say goodbye to the men who were already
sitting in the plane. Max said to me, "I only have the clothes I'm
wearing, but maybe I can borrow some in the village." At this point, I
was not aware of all that had gone into getting down to the weight
limit, so I asked him, "Where are your clothes?" "I brought them but
they aren't included in the weight so I left them in the car." So I go
dashing off to the car to retrieve the clothes, arriving back just as
the pilot was coming to the plane. I pleaded for mercy, received it, and
Max's clothes got to ride in the front seat alongside the pilot!

Would you be willing to do what Max was willing to do? When I see men
like these, I just have a feeling that God is about to do something
outstanding among the Waran people.

\-\-\-\-\--

Samuel's son had specialist consult with the neurosurgeon scheduled for
Monday but the doctor was unable to attend. It was rescheduled for
Wednesday but an emergency surgery interfered. He is now scheduled again
for tomorrow. We pray the surgeon will be able to attend this consult.

\-\-\-\-\--

We had a medical evacuation form Likan on Friday. MAF was able to
evacuate a young man whose leg was caught under a falling tree when
vines cause the tree to twist and fall in an unexpected direction. We
are pretty sure the leg is broken and maybe worse. He is at a good
hospital where he will receive the best care available. His name is
Songamba.

\-\-\-\--

Since the flight left on Tuesday I haven't been feeling very well. I
just don't seem to be able get my energy back to anywhere near a normal
level. I've tried resting a lot but I haven't been able to get on top of
this thing. I guess I'll have to see a doctor tomorrow. (To save you all
the trouble of writing to tell me so, my wife has already told me that
men of my vintage shouldn't be pulling all-nighters anymore!)

Prayer Points:

-   Pray for Max and the recordists as they test out the recordings!
    Pray that all those who hear God's Word will be challenged and
    changed by it.

-   Pray for all three of the medical situations described above. God is
    the best doctor I know and he doesn't miss appointments.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
