**Take Two - July 22, 2018**

**William & Robin Butler**

We started off the week with a consultation with the surgeon who will
operate on Samuel's son, Yuticas. Unfortunately, he could not schedule
the surgery until August 22. It seems that when he gave the plan for the
week at the last appointment, he was speaking about a typical
 hospital/surgical schedule for this type of surgery, rather than a
specific plan for this week. We were all very disappointed but the
doctor said that was the best he could do. He did tell us that, after
looking at the x-rays, he expects the surgery to be one of the short
variety rather than the three-hour procedure.

Since 5 more weeks is too long for the family to stay in town, Bethaney
started looking into flight possibilities and has scheduled their return
for Tuesday. Then they will return to town in August a few days before
the surgery.

As disappointing as the outcome of this visit has been, there are some
positives. We now know exactly what caused the bump and it is treatable
with a simple surgery. Also, there is a surgeon here in Madang who can
perform the procedure.

This was the first week since Samuel came to town that I felt halfway
decent and energetic. So Samuel and I crammed as much into the week as
we could. We will work again tomorrow morning to tie up several loose
ends before Samuel goes home.

Things haven't gone as Samuel and I had hoped during his time in town
but we keep pressing on, step-by-step and when necessary inch-by-inch.
Though Satan is marshalling his forces against us, we are confident that
"Those who are with us are more than those who are with them." (Elisha
in 2 Kings 6:16). Thank you for being a part of the great army of those
who fight for the knowledge of truth and spiritual freedom for the Waran
people. May the Lord bless you!

Prayer Points:

-   Pray for Samuel as he returns home. It is time to be working on
    gardens so he will have his hands full preparing and planting so his
    family has food. Pray that a flight to get the recordists into town
    will work out. Samuel's family is going out on an existing flight
    that is going on to somewhere else so there is no chance to bring
    anyone back into Madang on this flight.

-   Pray for MAF, our partners in ministry who do so much to help us
    with flight services. They have limited resources and personnel but
    they do a ton of work to serve many missionaries and even more Papua
    New Guineans in some of the remotest areas of the country.

Blessings,

William and Robin

Prayer Point follow-ups:

-   Here is the report about Robin's nephew Jeff in his own words:
    "After nine months of Dr. appointments, chemo, scans and general
    craziness, today I got to hear the words, 'Your scans look good. No
    evidence of disease.'" Praise the Lord with us!

-   Two weeks ago we asked you to pray for a young Waran man from Likan
    who had to be evacuated after a tree fell on his leg. His leg had
    two fractures but has been set and put in a cast. He was able to
    return to the village on Saturday. MAF has a Facebook post with
    pictures of his return. Click on this link and look for the post for
    July 22, which should be at or near the top:
    <https://www.facebook.com/MAFPapuaNewGuinea/posts/2019660215030300>.
    Thank God for the missionary doctors who fixed him up!

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
