Take Two - 1 July 2018

William & Robin Butler

On Tuesday, the current team of recorders will be leaving. They will
depart with a job well done. Over the course of the month, they have
recorded 12 books of Waran Scripture, listened to it all, and corrected
all the errors that they have found. That is a marvelous accomplishment
for 4 guys who had never worked with computers or recording technology
when they arrived in Madang on 1 June.

They have also learned to work together as a team. When I sit in one of
the listening sessions, I wonder that they are even friendly to one
another. The criticism of each other, though always intended to correct
or improve the recording, is very blunt and harsh by my standards. Yet
it works for them, perhaps because they value the work they are doing
and are committed to a quality output. They know that their recordings
will be heard by many people and they don't want anyone on their team to
be embarrassed by a poor quality recording.

In spite of the seeming harshness of the listening sessions, there is a
genuine camaraderie within the team. It is always a joy to watch a team
develop and grow together. There will be other recording teams and maybe
some of these guys will be back again, but each team will be unique.

Although we have accomplished much this week, there is still a ton of
stuff to do in the 36 hours that remain before the flight on Tuesday. We
have many Scripture booklets to print. The recordings need to be
compiled and transferred to media that can be played in the village.
This has been left to the end because the team has been working even
over the weekend, listening to recordings and making corrections of
anything they discovered.

Samuel arrived Saturday morning. Once the recording team leaves, we will
be continuing on with our work of finalizing the text of the New
Testament. We will also be trying to get a surgical evaluation of his
son who has a large growth on his head.

Prayer Points:

-   Pray that the recording team will return safely to the village. Pray
    that many people will gather to hear the recordings that they have
    made and will offer feedback so that future recordings can be
    improved.

-   Pray that arrangements can be made for Samuel's son to have a
    surgical consult quickly. He is in school and can't afford to be
    away very long.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
