**Take Two - July 29, 2018**

**William and Robin Butler**

Early Tuesday morning, Samuel and family flew out of Madang for Likan.
Others from Yar village were waiting with a canoe to take them the rest
of the way home. As a result, they were back home in Yar by a little
after 3:00 PM. Since then we have been in regular contact via the GPS
device that Samuel uses.

Right now we are waiting for confirmation from MAF concerning a flight
to get a new group of recordists into town. We hope the fight will be
this week. I received a call from Max on Friday. He had traveled several
hours from Yar to go see his wife for a few days. In that area cell
phone service is still available so he called to tell me what was
happening. Over this weekend he was travelling back to Yar to be ready
for the flight to Madang when the flight happens.

One Tuesday after Samuel left, I took the rest of the day off. Monday
was a holiday here but Samuel and I worked all day since it was his last
day. As a result of being off, I was available for a little fun
excursion. I went with a colleague to assist the Mum people to pick up a
cow that had been purchased for the dedication celebration that occurred
on Wednesday. The agricultural station workers had already rounded up
the cow and put it in the corral. However, when we arrived everyone had
gone out for lunch. Though we had to wait a good while for the workers
to return, there was really no drama with getting the cow loaded on the
truck. I was mildly disappointed! Still it was an interesting diversion
that got me away from my computer for a while.

The Mum dedication of Matthew's Gospel went very well with a large crowd
of around 1,000 people in attendance. It is wonderful to know that the
people now have access to more of God's Word. This celebration will also
really encourage people to read the Scriptures and incorporate it into
their lives. Bethaney had driven a carload of international visitors and
PBT personnel out on Monday and they returned on Thursday. All travel
was on dry roads and without incident. Praise the Lord! The dry part was
great because the last hour and a half of the travel was on dirt logging
roads that quickly turn to very slippery mud when wet.

Preparations are ongoing for the next recording sessions and the next
time Samuel will be in town. I'm sure that they will all be here before
I am completely ready for them.

We trust that each of you have had a great week this past week and next
week will be even better.

Prayer Points:

-   Pray that a flight to bring the recordists into town will develop,
    preferably sooner rather than later.

-   Praise that the PBT family whose return to PNG had been delayed
    while they were waiting on work permits and visas will arrive back
    in PNG tomorrow!

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
