**Take Two - August 12, 2018**

**William & Robin Butler**

Thank you for your faithful prayers. We saw positive answers to both
prayer points from last week.

The flight planned to bring in a new group of recordists happened on
Tuesday as expected. Five men came in. A sixth wanted to come but there
wasn't enough space on the plane for him. He will come in when Samuel
and his family come in on the 17^th^.

Matthew, from the previous group, returned to continue on recording
Hebrews. Three new men came to try their hand at the recording. They
have already learned the basic mechanics of the recording process and
have started productive recording. Max was the final member of the
group. He continues to help with the training and troubleshooting for
the recordists but is also working on his own work of completing the
Elementary 1 curriculum for Waran literacy training.

We have had a few challenges with the recording. With the last group we
were able to record at the PBT office. But right now, there is a major
project underway to replace the roof and do a few other maintenance
projects at the office. This means that there is a lot of noise from
equipment running and hammers being used. So we are recording at the
National Co-worker Housing where the men are living. Each man can be in
a room by himself so there is no interference from other voices nearby.
We just have to contend with neighbors occasionally cranking up their
boom boxes and nearby dogs having barking contests!

We've had some problems with echoes in the sparsely-furnished rooms.
Tomorrow we will hang some blankets and curtains around the walls to
dampen the echoes. Then we will only have to deal with power outages.
There is no backup generator on the property so when the power goes out
we can only record until the computer batteries give out. The power
supply has been relatively reliable lately so maybe we won't have many
delays.

This week our son Tyler and his wife Autumn will be arriving for a short
visit. On Friday our whole family will fly out to Likan for a few days.
This will be the first time that Tyler has been back to Likan since he
graduated from high school in 2000 and the first time that the rest of
us have been there at the same time in several years. We look forward to
seeing a lot of people as they make a special effort to get to the
village to see Tyler. Since we will be in the village next weekend, we
won't have any way to send out a Take Two. We will add a third prayer
point that will be especially relevant next week.

Prayer Points:

1.  Pray that the recordists will pay attention to details in the text
    they are recording and make recordings that won't require a lot of
    later corrections. Pray that Max will continue to work patiently
    with the men, assisting them to do the best that they possibly can.

2.  Pray for Tyler and Autumn as they travel from the US. Pray that they
    will be blessed with good health and safe travels while here and
    that the culture shock will not be too great, especially for Autumn.

3.  Pray for Yuticas, Samuel's son, who will enter the hospital on 22
    August for surgery to remove a large cyst on the top of his head.
    Pray for guidance for the surgeon, protection from infection, and
    rapid healing.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
