**Take Two - September 2, 2018**

**William & Robin Butler**

Two weeks ago we were out in the Waran area. This is the first time our
whole family has been there since 2000, when Tyler graduated from high
school and left for the US. It was a wonderful experience. The people
have lost none of their enthusiasm for celebrating, greeting us at the
airstrip with lots of hugs, excited chatter, and warm greetings. On the
way to our house, we trundled down a long line of people, each of whom
wanted to shake our hands and greet us. Autumn was included in
everything right from the beginning, even though they had never seen her
before she stepped off the plane.

The enthusiasm never went away in Likan (where we lived) and was
repeated at Klorowom (the nearest village that we often visited) when we
went there for Sunday services. Klorowom is right on the river so we
were splashed with a lot of water to greet us, followed by hugs and
handshakes galore.

Tyler was no doubt the center of attention. The people were thrilled
that he had returned, since they had built up in their heads that he had
gone away and forgotten all about them. In reality, nothing could be
farther from the truth. Many childhood acquaintances were renewed and
new bonds formed. One family that we are close to even had a special
event to gather all their family members in Tyler's generation so they
could share a meal with Tyler and Autumn. The parents explained, "We are
getting older and we don't know if we will be here when Tyler comes back
again. We want him to meet all the next generation so he will know them
and they will know him. Then he will know that he will always have a
place family here." Such a thoughtful and touching gesture. Of course,
they all knew one another 20 years ago, but they have grown up and
changed a lot in those years.

It was great for the rest of us to be in the village too. It was
shocking to see almost all of the men who were the adults when we
arrived have now passed on. We heard about most of the deaths since we
stopped living in the village but to have the majority of the village
gathered and see so many missing was striking. Those who are the older
people now were the young married couples when we arrived. Their
children and grandchildren are the bulk of the population now.

It was good to see the churches in both Likan and Klorowom continuing to
do well. The old pastors are still around and new ones are rising up.

After we flew back to Madang we traveled by road to Ukarumpa in the
central highlands where both Tyler and Bethaney went to high school.
Tyler has a couple of high school classmates that serve with Wycliffe
Bible Translators there. He and Autumn were able to share some good
times with them. It was great for all of us to meet up with people we
had known or worked alongside during the times we were at Ukarumpa.

Last Sunday we fully intended to send out the Take Two but,
unfortunately, that didn't happen. Early Sunday morning we received a
message sent via GPS device from Jesse Pryor who works among the Ap Ma
people that Morex was very sick. Morex is Samuel's brother. He is
married to an Ap Ma woman and lives near where Pryors live. We have
asked you to pray for him several times through the years. He's been in
a wheelchair for several years and we have brought him into Madang
several times so his bedsores could be treated.

However, this was different. This was a severe, acute illness but local
health workers were supporting him with a IV drip to stabilize him. I
passed the message on to Samuel and we all prayed for him through the
day. However, at 6:30 that evening we received another message telling
us that Morex had passed away. When I called Samuel his phone was off. I
finally reached Max and gave the news to him. I asked him to let the
other Waran men know and stand by to support Samuel. I kept trying to
call Samuel and after several minutes he realized his phone had gone off
and turned it on. I would be very grateful to never have to make another
call like that for the rest of my life! After that initial message, the
entire team, me included, called every Waran person in our phone books
to pass the word along. Network problems hampered us all. Of special
concern was notifying Elaine, Morex's daughter, who was staying with an
Ap Ma family (in a weak network area) and going to school in Lae. It
wasn't until Monday that anyone was able to get through to her.

I asked Samuel to think about what he wanted to do and late Sunday night
he called to say that they had all talked it over and decided he should
return to the village, especially to support his elderly mother. He left
Madang on Tuesday for Wewak and went on to Yar on Wednesday. We had the
GPS device with us since Samuel was just planning to stay in Madang
while we were gone. So we won't be able to hear anything from him until
he returns to a network area.

Meanwhile, the recording team continues to chug along. Many chapters
have been recorded while we have been away. Max has done a wonderful job
keeping them going while I've been away. I look forward to catching up
with where they all are on Monday.

Thank you for your continued prayers for us. As you can see from the
crisis with Morex, the whole team needs your prayer cover even when we
can't pass along specific points.

Prayer Points:

-   Thank God that Tyler and Autumn have made it safely home. Pray that
    the Waran people will be encouraged by our visit among them.

-   Please lift up Samuel, his mother, and two brothers in their time of
    mourning. Pray God's comfort also for Betty (Morex's wife) and two
    daughters, as well as the extended families on both sides.

-   Pray for the team of recordists. Each of them is currently working
    on a longer book that can seem to just go on and on. Pray that they
    will remain healthy and encouraged to keep pressing on.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
