---
title: October 20, 2019
date: 2019-10-20
author: Robin Butler
---

Your prayers were answered in a special way this past week. When the three Mission aviation organizations within Papua
New Guinea were unable to help us in the time frame we needed the unexpected proposal that we spoke about last week
became reality.  Our brother-in-law is a pilot with a commercial aviation company in Papua New Guinea.  He was a pilot
with MAF (Missionary Aviation Fellowship) several years ago when we first met him so he has flown us to the village many
times and still flies planes that can land on our grass airstrip.  The Waran people know that he is Lynn's husband.
Lynn is Robin's sister who worked as a Literacy Specialist in Yar for several years.  Out of the blue Leon wrote to us
saying that on Wednesday 16th he had a pickup in Wewak to Kiunga. He could divert to Madang-Tamo-Wewak which would be an
extra 1.2 hour diversion but very doable since the plane would be basically empty until it was in Wewak.   On Wednesday
October 16th the Waran New Testaments made their journey to the village.  Praise the Lord!  It was a special hug from
the Lord to have Leon be a part of taking the New Testaments to the village.

William and Bethaney spent Wednesday, Thursday and Friday in Likan getting things prepared and organized to take the New
Testaments to the other villages.  They went to Klorowom Saturday and spent several hours, then headed to Yar.  They
arrived at 9:30 PM Saturday evening (7:30 AM Saturday Eastern Standard Time).  They will spend Sunday at Yar and then
move onto another village on Monday.  The water is lower than it was at dedication time so it will be interesting what
will take place.  I look forward to the stories once William and Bethaney are back in town. They have one week to make
it to as many of the Waran villages as possible. They must be in Wewak no later than Sunday 27^th^.

Thank you for your continued prayers.

Rejoicing,

Robin and William

**Prayer Points for the trip:**

- Thank God that William, Bethaney and the Waran New Testaments have made it to Waranland and that Leon could be a part
  of making it happen.
- Pray that as Bethaney and William travel around Waranland by motorized canoe, the journey will be safe and mostly dry
  since we don't want any books to be damaged by heavy rains. Pray that the outboard motor operates flawlessly.
- Pray that the celebration that began in Yar in June will be re-kindled in each village as we deliver the New
  Testaments. May all the Waran receive their New Testaments with joy in their hearts.
- Pray that in each village we will find advocates who will encourage the use of the New Testaments in the churches and
  in daily life. For some parts of the language, using the New Testament will be a little challenging at first due to
  dialect issues, but with encouragement they will be able to rise to meet the challenge.
