William and Robin Butler

Take Two - October 8, 2017

Last weekend we were out of Madang attending a spiritual retreat along
with all of our PBT-PNG colleagues. It was a wonderful event that helped
us to fellowship together and grow closer together as a team. Internet
service was much less than what is required to send out the Take Two to
everyone.

Samuel and I continue to plug away at clearing all the notes from the
Waran New Testament. Progress is slow but we are pleased with the
results of our editing because the text is clearer and reads more
smoothly when we are done. Samuel does most the work in achieving that
outcome. I focus on the notes that originated in consultant checking
sessions and have to do with the meaning of the text. Most notes from
consultants have been dealt with during the consultant session but
sometimes the edits are made hurriedly. When we look at them now we can
see that we need to make further changes or smooth out the text around
the previous edit.

We have been joined this week by Max Kamgru, one of the Waran literacy
supervisors. He is continuing his work on the curriculum for the E1
level of Waran literacy curriculum. He is almost finished creating the
stories that serve as the reading materials and foundation for teaching
lessons. However,  there is still quite a bit to do on the lesson plans
and teacher instructions. It is good to have him here at this time
because he and Samuel can talk over difficult spellings and other
language issues.

Robin is still preparing paperwork to secure work permits and visas for
our colleagues. She hasn't received anything back from the government
offices for some weeks now but applications still have to go in on time.
We continue to pray that the logjam will soon be broken and approved
documents will soon begin to flow.

Prayer Points:

-   Pray that William and Samuel will find ways to work faster without
    sacrificing quality.

-   Pray that Max will also make good progress on the E1 curriculum.

-   Pray with Robin that some of the outstanding approvals will come
    through soon. These delays make our co-workers nervous, especially
    new people who are going through the process for the first time.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
