Take Two - October 15, 2017

William and Robin Butler

This week was more of the same for **Samuel and I**---more flags
resolved, more inconsistent spelling cleaned up, more decisions about
whether a strings of sounds is best written as one word or two words.
I know that might seem like really simple stuff. Sometimes it is, but
mostly it isn't. Decisions in one place have ramifications in several
other places and changes must be made there as well or inconsistency
will result. Inconsistency will make it harder for people to read and,
especially, write Waran.

We also took on the major challenge of making consistent a handful of
concepts that play important roles in the New Testament. Quite often
when people speak in Waran about these concepts they just borrow the
word from the trade language, Tok Pisin. They use it without really
understanding what it means. We are aiming to put the concept in Waran
so that it can be understood. Although these concepts are represented by
one or two words in Greek and English, similar words don't exist in
Waran, so we end up with a phrase. Over the years we have translated
these terms in a few different ways in a search for something that
communicates correctly and clearly while still being compact enough that
people don't get lost in all the words.

One of our difficult terms is "church."  Waran people do have several
ways that they talk about the people in the church: brothers and
sisters, people who believe in Christ, Christ's family/clan, people who
follow Christ, etc. The New Testament also uses those descriptive phrase
for Christians but it also uses the specific word "church." We need to
make a final decision about which Waran description will best fit all
the contexts where the New Testament uses "church" then adjust all the
references in the Waran New Testament so that we are consistent.

We are also struggling with "priest," "chief priests," and "high
priest." In traditional Waran society there was no person who had a
priestly role so the term has always been borrowed from Tok Pisin. Our
struggle can be seen in that we have tried 5 main ways to translate
"chief priests" and each of those have several variations. We must work
our way through those and select the best one, the one that adequately
expresses the main function of the role and has been received well by
Waran Christians.

We expect to get most of these sorted out this week and make the
adjustments to bring about consistency in terminology. Then next month
we will confirm through further village testing that people are on board
with the decisions we have made.

**Max** has also been moving forward with the reading materials for the
Elementary 1 curriculum. He is currently updating the books to present
spelling standards then he will ask Samuel and I to check them. He
thought he might finish that work this month but it is starting to look
like that won't be possible.

**Robin** received a bit of good news this week. One couple's visa
renewals are (almost) ready. There still hasn't been any progress on the
critical work permits so we need to just keep praying. God can break
bureaucratic logjams.

Thank you so much for your prayers. We couldn't do it without you. We
are tired and the volume of critical decisions that must be made gets
overwhelming at times. Your prayers sustain us.

Prayer Points

-   Pray for wisdom for Samuel, Max and I as we make decisions about
    spelling that accurately reflects the reality of the Waran language.
    Pray that Samuel and I will make Spirit-led decisions regarding the
    way we will represent the key concepts that we are struggling with.

-   Continue to pray for the paperwork logjam to break, for Robin's sake
    and also for those who are waiting to serve here when the paperwork
    is approved.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
