Take Two - October 22, 2017

William and Robin Butler

Today's Take Two will be short. Samuel is going home tomorrow. We have
accomplished much toward our goal of finalizing the Waran New Testament
during the 5 weeks that he has been in town. As far as the work goes,
I'd like for him to stay 5 more weeks but it is time for him to return
to his family. Both of us could use some time to breathe and recover!

I have a long list of things that I would like to accomplish before
Samuel leaves town. Primarily, I would like to finish my review of the
edits has made in response to any flags in the text that have been
generated this year. If the completed flags are reviewed and marked as
completed they will no longer show up in the text on Samuel's computer.
Removing those will make it easier for him to locate any that still need
attention. So as soon as I send this I'll go back to working on those
edits.

This week Samuel worked mostly on the key phrases for chief priests,
high priests, elders and church. We settled on the phrases we were going
to move forward with and he examined every occurrence to make sure it
conformed to the selected phrase. Next month we will check these phrases
with several people in the village to see if they agree with our
choices. As of now, the phrase representing each of these words is used
consistently through the New Testament. Even if the village reviewers
decide a different phrase would be better, the next round of changes
will be easier because in each verse the text we'll be starting from
will be the same.

Max has continued to push forward in creating and editing the Elementary
1 curriculum. He'll be staying in town a bit longer.

Thank you so much for your prayers and encouragement.

Prayer Points:

-   Please ask God to bless Samuel for his faithful commitment to this
    work, often with much personal sacrifice. Ask God to bless his
    family, his gardens, and the work on his house that is still
    continuing.

-   Please ask that Max will be blessed with insight into how he can
    accomplish the goals of the E1 curriculum in the Waran language.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
