William and Robin Butler

Take Two - November 5, 2017

Transition. A period of changing from one state or condition to another.
We didn't exactly mark TRANSITION in big red letters on our calendar
from this week. But we should have!

We did have one Transition marked on the calendar. On Monday and Tuesday
Robin transitioned from being in Papua New Guinea to being in the US.
 She did that to attend her mother's 90th birthday celebration which
occurred yesterday. It was a wonderful event with many family members
and old friends showing up to celebrate with her mom. Our Son Tyler and
his wife Autumn were able to attend and stay a few days to visit with
Robin and everyone else in the family,  of course.

We also knew that I would be in some sort of transition as I changed
from being in town to being in the village. There are always many things
to finish and loose ends to tie up when that occurs. There are also many
things to prepare. We will be doing significant checking of some aspects
of the New Testament while I'm in the village. We expect to have access
to power by running a generator. But what if that fails. It could happen
so I'd better take two printed copies of the New Testament. Max also
needs us to check many of the small books that have been created for use
in the literacy curriculum. We'll need hard copies of those, too!. Lord
willing, I'll be making that transition on Friday. We have the flight
booked but there is an endless list of circumstances that may prevent
that from happening. So need the help of the one who controls
circumstances to make the flight happen.

One big transition we couldn't plan on but welcomed anyway, concerns
Robin's work. We changed from having no information concerning one
critical work permit to having the information we needed to know. We had
hoped to hear that the work permit was approved but what we heard was
"The department recommends that you re-submit the paperwork." We were
mostly prepared for that possibility. While I would have preferred for
Robin to be present to handle it herself, at least she was still where
we could communicate. From her hotel room in Australia on a mandatory
overnight layover she was able to send me some critical documents and
walk me through the process of preparing the packet that needed to be
sent to our agent. The next morning I was able to prepare the documents
and get them sent. Our prayers for that work permit remain the same, but
there I a new set of circumstances surrounding it.

The last transition I'll mention happened today. Just before noon I left
Madang on public transportation and five and a half hours later I
arrived at Ukarumpa. Last week the dentist told me that my crown had
arrived. They had one appointment open for this week, on Monday morning.
Travelling on the weekend is always iffy but I did find the one vehicle
coming this way. Even though the vehicle stopped at almost every
roadside market we passed, we made it. And to think, I get to do it all
again but in reverse tomorrow! I'm so looking forward to that.

-   Thank God for Robin\'s mother and the godly example she has been to
    her six children and their families and all who come in contact with
    her.  Ask God\'s blessing on her as she celebrates her 90th
    birthday.

-   Please ask God to be with William as he travels back to Madang and
    then to the village.  Pray that he will be able to able to think of
    everything that will be needed to complete all of the checks in the
    village.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
