William and Robin Butler

Take Two - November 12, 2017

William had his dental appointment as expected but we didn\'t expect the
crown to break as the dentist was putting it in.  So the whole process
starts again.   He has a temporary crown and a new one has been ordered.
 He had a very long day (10 1/2 hours) getting back to Madang but he
made it safely.  The trip was really tiring, Bethaney had a nice meal
ready for him when he arrived.  The rest of the week went by quickly as
he prepared to go to Likan on Friday.  We thank the Lord the flight did
take place and he is there now.  There aren\'t any canoes in the village
at the moment so he does not have a way to get to the village of Yar
where Samuel lives.  It is very important that he gets to Yar so that he
has the time needed to do all of the scripture checking and many other
things while he is there.

The critical work permit application was able to be resubmitted and now
we must wait again.  I am thankful William was able to get things pulled
together and sent quickly.

I am in Tennessee for the weekend visiting with William\'s parents. I am
thankful for a good trip yesterday and time to be with them for a few
days.

The next few weeks we need God\'s help to accomplish all that needs to
get done.  Thank you for standing with us in prayer.

-   Pray that William will be able to find a canoe that he can use to go
    to Yar where Samuel lives.  No canoe is currently available.  He is
    very tired of fighting rats and termites that are taking over our
    village house.

-   Pray for good work sessions in Yar.  They are trying to finalize
    village work on the New Testament.  They need to make decisions on
    many things including the date for the dedication, future work
    sessions in Madang and spelling of difficult words.

-   Continue to pray that the applications PBT has in different
    government offices will be approved soon.

Have a blessed week,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
