December 4, 2017

Update from William:

I did not see any change in my leg overnight, which with something like
cellulitis that normally progresses fairly quickly, is actually a good
sign. The doctor confirmed my diagnosis, dropped one of the antibiotics,
and doubled the dosage on the other. He put me on bed rest with leg
elevation, which I was already doing. All things being equal, he
wouldn't recommend a long flight on Thursday but thinks there is a
chance I could recover sufficiently for it. He would rather that I be
flying business because Qantas business class has chairs that convert to
flat beds but I didn't anticipate this situation when I made my
bookings.

But he really doesn't appreciate the non-medical resources that are
being brought to bear on this situation. I have hundreds of people
praying for my recovery and together we have an Almighty God who
intervenes in the lives of his people.

Thank you all so much for your prayers and notes and well-wishes. Carry
on! I'm confident that God has my back and front and both sides, too.

In His Care,

William

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
