Take Two - December 10, 2017

William and Robin Butler

Friends, thank you so very much for your prayer support. I made the trip
from PNG reasonably well. I saw the doctor Wednesday morning before
beginning my trip and he thought I was coming along quite nicely and
wasn't too concerned about me making the trip.

On each of the first two flights I was provided with a whole row of
seats on which to elevate my leg. But the flight crossing the Pacific
had every seat filled. That is why I had been unable to upgrade to
business. But my leg continued to do well.

While I was in LA, I was able to elevate my leg and get some sleep
during a long layover. My final flight from LA to Louisville via Denver
seemed to last forever. During the last segment I began to experience
nerve twinges and pain in my leg again so that by the time I got to the
house I was quite uncomfortable. But I was home, could rest peacefully ,
and wait for renewed healing to take place. It took about 36 hours of
rest for my leg to return to its preflight condition. The flight caused
a significant setback but I am back on the road to complete healing.

Seeing family and friends is like good medicine to my heart and soul.
I'm sure that alone will help my body, too. So once again, my heartfelt
thanks and appreciation for each prayer and encouraging note. Some of
the flights may have been completely full but there was always room for
Jesus to fly with me. That is first-class travel all the way!

Prayer Points:

Thank God for enabling me to make the flight and quickly recover the
healing ground lost during the flight. Pray that my leg will fully
recover in a few more days.

Pray for our dear family friend from Likan village, Semanup. Bethaney
has told us she isn't doing well at all. Her husband has brought her to
town seeking medical care. That care is always more difficult to get
during December.

In his hands,

William and Robin

Your prayers are so appreciated.  Update on Jeff True as posted on
Facebook by his wife Amy on Friday:  Jeff has been doing very well with
his first treatment.  He has some odd side effects with neuropathy and
cold sensitivities.  He said he muscles tense up and he has a delayed
reaction of loosening them.  He has been extremely fatigued and resting
a lot.  He has not had any nausea or sick stomach, which is awesome! 
Today ends his 48 hour take home chemo pump and he will spend the next
10 days beefing up his energy to do it all over again!  Round 1 has gone
as good as we could have hoped for!

Continued prayer requests:  Our girls are really struggling.  B and D
have already had a lot of loss in their lives and seeing Jeff not
feeling up to par (which he is NEVER sick) has been really difficult. 
The conversations we have had have really been heartbreaking.  Please
pray for wisdom for us and peace for them as we work through this. 
Mallory hurt her foot in a basketball game Tuesday and can't drive which
has added an extra level of fun here!  Please pray for quick recovery
for her!  Jacob is flying home Tuesday afternoon!  Please pray for his
finals the next few days and safe travel.  Jeff\...well we are praying
for a miracle, but our prayer is we can use this situation to talk to
new people we meet and encourage others in some way.  Jeff is at a
better spot with this than I am, but I am working on it!  Hugs and Love!

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
