Take Two - December 3, 2017

William and Robin Butler

I returned safely to Madang on Friday as scheduled even though later in
the day than planned.  But that is a story for another time.  I had so
many things to say about the village experience, things accomplished and
decisions made, but for now I will only mention one. In talking over the
plans for the dedication of the Waran New Testament, the people have
decided that they really only want to have a big event like that in
June. They have good reasons which I will share later. Since we can't
possibly have the New Testaments completed in time for June 2018, they
have decided to set the dedication for June 2019. I will write more
about that later but I wanted to mention all of you who have been
praying about the meeting and the decisions made.

Everything else has been overshadowed by an unexpected turn of events
today. When I woke up this morning there was an area on my leg that was
very tender when touched. Over the next couple of hours I monitored in
closely then decided it was most likely cellulitis. I would have gone to
the doctor but seeing a doctor on Sunday here is virtually impossible.
Since I have had experience, mostly bad, with cellulitis, I immediately
started an antibiotic and went to the drug store for a second one
shortly after that. I have spent the day lying down with my leg
elevated. I will see the doctor as soon as possible in the morning. He
may recommend that I get to Australia immediately, in fact, the more I
think about it, I really think that is what he will recommend. Bethaney
and I have already talked through some scenarios in case that is the
verdict.

This is a really crushing turn of events as I was scheduled to fly to
the US on Wednesday to rejoin Robin and spend the holidays with our
families. I still hope to do that but I realize that my schedule may
have to be altered.

However, men plan but our great God executes. He could choose to heal me
overnight. In fact, that is what I am praying. That would be awesome.
But I am also accepting that he may have other plans for me.

Prayer Points:

-   Pray that God will heal whatever is affecting my leg.

-   Pray that we will have grace to accept whatever his decision is
    because he certainly knows more about what is best for us than we
    do.

In his care,

William and Robin

Special prayer request update:  My nephew will begin treatments this
week. *SPECIFIC PRAYER REQUESTS from them: \"Peace about the decisions
we have made, that Jeff\'s body will respond to chemotherapy and
treatment with no new lesions and no additional growth appears, prayer
for our family as we adjust to the new normal here, healing for Jeff\'s
body, and Jacob (their son is in his first year at The Citadel) as he
enters finals these next few weeks. While today\'s PET scan results (no
other cancer in the body) were amazing, we have a hard fight ahead of
us!\"*

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
