Take Two -- February 26, 2017

Thank you so much for your prayers. We have seen evidence of them in our
daily work this week.

The checking session is moving along really well, much better, in fact,
than our most optimistic projections. After our first week we are at the
end of chapter 10 and have checked 74% of the 257 verses. That leaves
the final three chapters with 68 verses yet to go. Lord willing we will
complete that work on Tuesday. Then we will have Wednesday for any final
revisions to make so that the consultant can look over them on Thursday.

The team has worked together wonderfully well all week. All participated
in answering questions posed by the consultant and providing on-the-spot
translations of verses into the Tok Pisin language, which all of us,
including our consultant speak. We've found some places where we've
needed to correct something or add a few words to make the meaning clear
and things like that but the corrections have been relatively few.

There are some tremendous passages in 2 Corinthians, among them chapter
4, where Paul talks about ministry and earthen vessels.

Verse 1 ***Therefore, since through God's mercy we have this ministry,
we do not lose heart.***  I thought of Konamby, a pastor who never lost
heart, a shining example if there ever was one. And Samuel, who has
faithfully carried on the ministry God has given him to bring the Word
to life among his people, who barely paused long enough to bury his son
before getting on a plane to come to Madang for a pre-arranged checking
session that couldn't be changed. We've all had heartache and
discouragement along the way, but we are still here, by the mercy and
grace of God. And we are all too attached to the Father to ever lose
heart.

Verse 7 ***But we have this treasure in jars of clay to show that this
all-surpassing power is from God and not from us*.**  Now there is a
verse that resonates with the Waran people. Few people have them
anymore, but all but the youngest ones remember the clay pots they used
to make and cook food in. They know how fragile they were, how easily
they cracked. That's exactly why they don't use them anymore. And they
understand the fragility of human life, all too well, actually.

Verses 16-18 ***Therefore we do not lose heart. Though outwardly we are
wasting away, yet inwardly we are being renewed day by day. For our
light and momentary troubles are achieving for us an eternal glory that
far outweighs them all. So we fix our eyes not on what is seen, but on
what is unseen. For what is seen is temporary, but what is unseen is
eternal.*  **As I looked around the room, only Justin, the youngest
among us, was without gray hair. But that is only a visible sign of the
inward changes that are drawing us ever closer to our mortality. But
with spiritual vision we see the unseen and it grows more real every day
while the things of this life lose their luster. We long for "the breath
that just remains long," eternal life in Waran terms. None of us are
quite ready for a casket fitting, so we carry on because of verses 1 and
7, but, hey, we know we are getting there.

There are so many more just like that in these chapters, too. But it has
been a long week of long days and short nights so that's all I tell
about for now.

Thanks again for your prayers. As a team, we have lived in and prospered
by them this week. Just think---68 verses to go and the entire Waran New
Testament will have been checked by consultants.

Teaser: Next week I'll be writing about Wall Drug in Wall, SD.

Prayer points:

-   Praise God for the terrific progress during the checking session.
    Pray that the rest of the checking and the corrections that we will
    need to make after the check will go equally well.

-   Pray for a safe trip for our consultant as he returns to the US on
    Friday and resumes his duties there. Pray also that we will be able
    to easily work out a flight with MAF to take the Waran Team back
    home at the end of the week or early next week.

Blessing,

William and Robin

P.S. If you are on Facebook and would like more updates, you can look
for William P Butler. I'm trying to post more regularly there. I accept
friend requests.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*Take Two is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*

![](media/image1.jpeg){width="6.5in" height="3.185323709536308in"}
