Take Two -- March 12, 2017

Samuel is scheduled to return to Madang on April 3.  Some of the things
that need to be done before publication of the New Testament only he can
do. Others he and I will need to work together to get the job done. But
some things, I can straighten out on my own. Reading through the files,
identifying the remaining problem areas, and sorting them into one of
those categories is a big part of what I will be doing until he returns.

One of the things I can do on my own is to check formatting. Consistency
is absolutely necessary for the typesetter to be able to produce a
printable book that looks like we want it to look. We tried to be
consistent when we first created the books but sometimes we have failed.
Being able to look at all 27 books, one right after the other, helps to
detect the inconsistencies. It is not a hard thing to do but it rapidly
becomes tedious. But it must be done, the sooner the better.

At the same time, I am adding notes and verse references to the list for
Samuel and I to deal with later. I'm afraid that the list might be quite
long by the end of the month. But this is all part of the process of
refining the text to make it as perfect as we possibly can.

We have asked you to pray for Ninau Ephraim, mobilizer for the Bible
Translation Association of PNG and a long-time friend. On Thursday
evening, the Lord answered that prayer by calling Ninau home. It is hard
to let her go but as her family said, Thank God that she is free of
illness and pain, resting in the arms of God. Thank you for praying with
us.

Take Two Prayer Points:

1.  Pray for William to remain alert even through the tedious tasks and
    take note of anything that needs to be corrected, improved,
    questioned, or fixed to allow the text to speak clearly and
    correctly in Waran.

2.  Pray for Samuel as he is in the village, that he would have quality
    time with his family and accomplish all that he needs to get done
    before he returns to town for 4-5 weeks.

Thank you for your continued prayers.

Have a blessed week,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*Take Two is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
