Take Two - March 19, 2017

**Laugh or Go Crazy**

This week I have been looking more at the content of the Waran
Scriptures, trying to weed out every error and inconsistency that still
remains. It is no easy task.

I spent half a day sorting out the Waran words for snake, star, year,
and dream. They all 3-4 letter words that start with K and end with
either N or Ñ (like the *ny* in canyon, sort of).  The Ñ is a letter not
found in English or Tok Pisin alphabets so people frequently write N
when the sound is really Ñ. The vowel or vowels in the middle are a
problem too since people are not sure of exactly which vowel they should
write. Though there has been a lot of discussion, the spellings haven't
been completely resolved yet. We can't exactly look the word up in
Webster's! As a result through the years with different people involved,
we have the same word spelled 4-5 different ways and in other places,
two different words spelled the same way. That leads to a lot of
confusion.

To sort this all out I decided to regularize the spellings so at least
each word would have only one spelling. That meant going through the New
Testament for each of those 4 words and making the spelling consistent.
I was never more thankful for a computer and all the electronic tools
that helped me find all those places rather quickly. Did I get the
spellings right? I don't know, but it doesn't matter at this point. If
the Literacy Committee decides I didn't get the spelling right, at least
I know that everywhere in the Waran text I find **kun,** we are talking
about a snake. If it needs to be spelled **kuñ**, the old computer will
make it very easy to quickly make that change.

I found one or two bloopers, too---the kind that make you feel really
incompetent. Like Matthew 9.6, where Jesus tells the paralyzed man,
"Stand up,  get your louse and go home." Bet you haven't heard that
story before, have you? Waran has no word for a **mat**, so when Samuel
came to that verse he simply borrowed the word from English and Tok
Pisin. Waran people frequently do the same. However, in this case
**mat** already has a meaning in Waran---head louse. So we'll be
revising that sentence for sure.

I am not happy that those kinds of things still exist in the Waran
scriptures but I am happy that we are finding them now rather than after
the New Testament is published. The search will go on this week.

Max Kamgru, one of the Waran Literacy supervisors, has been in town
working in the Waran Elementary 1 curriculum. He has made wonderful
 progress making the curriculum fit the Waran language and creating
songs, games, and stories to support the lesson plans. He expects to
travel home with a group from his area on Tuesday. He will return when
he has another travel opportunity and expects to finish the curriculum
at that time.

Take Two Prayer Points:

1.  Thank God for Max and his commitment to teaching people how to read
    and write in Waran. Pray that he will have a safe trip home.

2.  Please pray that both Robin and I will have sharp eyes to see
    misspellings, errors, and missing information in our areas of work.
    Getting things right is critical for both of us.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*Take Two is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
