Take Two -- April 2, 2017

Yesterday was Samuel\'s day to travel into town. The plan called for the
plane to depart Madang at 11:00am and return about 1:30-2 pm. When we
arrived at the airport with the passengers and cargo that were
travelling from Madang to Tamo, the plane had just taken off for a
second flight into the mountains south of Madang. The pilot had decided
to make a second flight there because the weather was good in that
direction, which isn\'t often the case. So we waited around until he
returned, loaded up, and took off for Tamo around 1.30. The plane
didn\'t return until almost 4:30. There wasn\'t any real problem except
that the day we thought would be over shortly after midday didn\'t end
until late in the afternoon. But Samuel did make it in and is well. His
family that he left in the village is also well.

One of the reasons the long day became difficult is that I began to not
feel too well. Robin had started having symptoms of a cold on Friday but
it didn\'t hit me until late Saturday. Today has been pretty miserable
with multiple sneezing attacks and a running faucet in my nose. It is a
pretty miserable way to start a critical work session. But who knows,
perhaps we\'ll both wake up tomorrow morning feeling well. The good news
on the health front is that my legs have not swollen up at all this
week. Thank you for your prayers in that regard.

Prayer Points:

-   Pray that Samuel and William will be make effective use of the next
    five weeks working together to update the older parts of the Waran
    New Testament, smooth out any rough spots, and prepare the text for
    publication. We won\'t complete the job but a good start would be
    great.

-   Pray that William and Robin will recover quickly from their colds.
    Ask God to protect Samuel so that he will not catch it.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*Take Two is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
