**Take Two - April 23, 2017**

Samuel said to me at the end of the day on Tuesday, "I want you to look
at Acts 13.43. There was a word in the verse that I didn't know so
I have rewritten the verse. Please check it to make sure I haven't made
some mistakes." I was a little shocked! How could there be a word in the
New Testament that Samuel didn't know? He has the final say on
everything we have put in the New Testament. And he has read aloud every
word during the consultant checking sessions. How could he not know?

Then I looked at the verse and found the mystery word. I didn't know it
either and a quick check told me that it wasn't used anywhere else in
the New Testament or in any other Waran story we've collected! At that
point, I suspected it was an outright error, most likely resulting from
some past incorrect editing of the verse. I thought about going back
through all the layers of the old back-up copies to figure out where the
word came from but decided there was no real point in that. So I turned
my attention to Samuel's re-write. Though he had been concerned about
possible errors, I found none. He had not only replaced the unknown word
but had re-ordered the verse so that it flowed better and sound more
like good Waran than the original.

This little incident explains why we will be pouring over the New
Testament text for months rather than a couple of weeks. There can be no
mystery words or phrases or sentences in the published New Testament.
Every verse should have the correct meaning and should be clear and
understandable, spelled correctly, and formatted correctly. Impossible?
Probably! But we are trying.

Prayer Points

-   Praise God for Samuel, his God-given gifts, his tenacity, his
    growing understanding of this stage of the process, his ability to
    learn new things as required during this phase. But, most of all,
    thank God for his commitment to God and to the completion of the
    Waran New Testament. He is a precious jewel. Pray for his
    protection. I know Satan would love to cause him to stumble and
    fall. But I am even more confident that God wants him to succeed and
    bring this lifelong work to completion.

-   Thank God that both William and Robin have recovered from their
    sicknesses. We are still not quite 100% with energy but we are
    getting there. It is great to have clear lungs and clear heads. It
    is so much easier to do good work when we are well. Thank you for
    your prayers.

Follow up on Matt Dodd: We first asked you to pray for Matt on Feb 5
after he had been diagnosed with a brain tumor and suffered
a debilitating stroke. It seemed his life was hanging by a very thin
thread. Today we ran into one of his colleagues who told us that Matt
can now walk, and talk, and even drive a car for short distances! That
is astounding news! He is still being treated for the tumor and the
doctors do not think he can overcome that, but they understand neither
the power of prayer nor the power of the God who hears those prayers. In
the meantime, Matt has a tremendous testimony and is able to encourage
others who are undergoing physical trials. Thank you for praying with
us. Praise God!

God bless you this week,

William and Robin
