Take Two -- Easter 2017

Getting Jesus crucified wasn't easy. It took careful planning and
cooperation of a broad range of people.

Thirty pieces of silver was no small sum. The people who paid Judas were
Jewish leadership and men of means. To keep their position, influence,
and wealth, Jesus had to go. Thirty pieces of silver was a lot of money
but a small price to pay to maintain the status quo.

But it was the common people, not the rich, who swarmed outside the
judgment hall to swell the cry of  "Crucify him! Crucify him," forcing
Pilate's weak hand. Maybe they were encouraged to be there, but each
person made their own choice.

Together they committed a sin of cosmic proportions. They colluded to
kill the very One sent by the Father to save them from their sin and
guilt. If at that moment, the earth had opened up and swallowed them all
or the skies had begun to rain fire and brimstone, no one would think
they hadn't got what was coming to them.  Peter told the thousands
gathered in the Pentecost crowd, "You, with the help of wicked men put
him \[Jesus\] to death by nailing him to the cross." (Acts 2.23b)

But that wasn't what the Father did! After all, "The Son of Man came to
seek and to save the lost." (Luke 19.10) God offered to the very people
who put His Son on that cross a way back from the brink, a way to claw
out from under from the shame and doubt that had been nagging at them
for 50 days. Peter brings the monstrous nature of their sin to the
forefront and when they crumble under the weight of it, he declares the
glorious gospel message, made possible by the very Jesus they killed,
"Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ
for the forgiveness of your sins." (Acts 2.38)

In that same sermon, Peter declared to the guilty crowd how there could
still be hope, "But God raised him from the dead, freeing him from the
agony of death, because it was impossible for death to keep its hold on
him." (Acts 2:24). Death could not hold Jesus back; a tomb made of solid
rock couldn't keep him in the grave; and, our own worst sins are no
match for the power of his forgiveness. Praise God! Peter's invitation
is still on offer to every one of us today.

Have a blessed Resurrection Sunday!!\
William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*Take Two is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
