Take Two -- April 30, 2017

It is hard to believe that a month has passed since Samuel arrived in
town, but yet it has. Though we are not as far along as we had hoped,
still many, many words have been corrected and many questions or notes
that we still had about the Waran text have been resolved. Counting
things isn't something I focus on since I prefer to get on with fixing
what's wrong rather than measuring it. Nevertheless, I do now wish that
I had a better idea of how many incorrect spellings have been corrected
and how many notes have been resolved just so we'd know how far we've
come.

This has been a week of distractions. The distractions weren't aimed at
Samuel and I or even the broader PBT team but we all felt the effects.
This is an election year in PNG. The election season starts with each
candidate filing with the local election office to declare that he is a
candidate. The election office in Madang is at the far end of an open
sports field directly in front of the PBT Office. When a candidate is
ready to file, he comes into town with a convoy of vehicles that
includes large flatbed trucks filled with supports. They parade all
around town with much fanfare shouting support for their candidate, the
louder the better. They finally congregate on the sports field for a
political rally. Of course, no rally is complete without music to pull
in people and speeches designed to put down the opposition while raising
oneself up. Of course, during this whole time the amplifiers are at
maximum volume (think, noise that vibrates tables inside the surrounding
buildings)! This went on all day long for the entire week.

Even though Samuel and I were in an office with solid block walls, the
noise still got in at a surprising level. It just grated on us and made
it difficult to focus and concentrate.

But it's over now. There will no doubt be some more rallies between now
and the July election but they won't be every day. And, on the bright
side, democracy is alive and well in PNG. In so many countries people
have no voice in selecting their political leadership.

Prayer Points

1.  Please pray with us during the election period. Pray for peace and
    safety to reign. Violence can easily erupt during this period.
    Please ask God to bind the power of Satan to speak lies though the
    mouths of would-be leaders seeking to garner votes by whatever means
    necessary. Pray that good leaders will rise to the top, not just in
    people's hearts, but at the ballot box, too. This is an going prayer
    request for the next 10 weeks.

2.  Please continue to pray for an easy way to get Samuel back home
    toward the end of this week. He needs to get home to get started on
    his garden. So far nothing has come up except the longest, most
    difficult way (flying to the next coastal town, traveling overland
    by truck, and a day's travel on the river). This leaves Samuel very
    tired and has special dangers but, unless God intervenes, it is our
    only option.

Thank you for your faithful participation in our ministry.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*Take Two is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
