**Take Two - April 9, 2017**

Samuel and I got off to a pretty good start this week. Since I was not
really feeling well we worked mostly on cleaning up the spelling and
deficiencies in the text. We reviewed all the possible misspellings that
I had identified. I was well aware that we had some words that had more
than one spelling but was surprised at the number that had 4 or 5. The
letter ñ, which is a letter and sound not used in either Tok Pisin or
English, seems to give people the most problems and affect how they hear
the vowels around it. So a simple word like poeñ, which means *near*,
had also been spelled poñ, poiñ, poin, and poñe!

We also found a few places where we had intended to include footnotes
but they had never been written in Waran. So Samuel wrote the missing
notes.

Samuel has also started reading through the New Testament. He is
especially looking for anything that doesn't sound right, or ways of
expressing a particular biblical term that we used to use but now have
a different way of saying it. That's a big job and not one you can do
for long periods of time. You get tired and miss things. So he reads for
a while then does something else for a while.

It has been interesting to look at the New Testament as a whole and
smooth out some of these wrinkles. I'd like to say we were done with
that but this is a process that we will continue to repeat over and over
until we are ready to publish. When you smooth out some of the bigger
problems, it allows you to notice smaller problems which, in turn,
direct your attention to even smaller issues. And so it goes.

On Thursday evening Max called me. He had made it back home. That was
the good news. Unfortunately, the canoe he was traveling in overturned
and everything he had with him was lost in the rain-swollen Ramu River.
But all the passengers were able to make it to shore. As Max said, "We
thanked God that we were all still alive." His wife is also still sick
so as soon as they can get a referral letter from the local clinic they
will come to the hospital here in Madang. Both Max and his wife are in
their second marriage having lost their first spouses to death. This is
a strong marriage of two great Christian people. For the sake of their
ministry among fellow believers, it would be a tragedy to lose either
one.

Robin continues every week to process the applications and support
documents necessary for PBT personnel to remain in country. You would
think that it would come to an end but someone is almost always in need
of a new passport, or work permit, or visa! She also assists another
mission organization because she is in a position to stay abreast of
requirements but they aren't.

**Prayer Points**

-   Continue to pray for Robin and William as we battle the congestion,
    sore throats, and coughs that are part of this virus. We don't know
    for certain that it is a virus but the symptoms are consistent with
    that. These things disrupt our sleep and leave us groggy and
    sluggish when we need to be alert. Robin was getting better from her
    initial problems but then took a turn for the worse on Friday and
    has had a rough weekend. Pray for the Lord's protection over Samuel
    and the rest of our colleagues around the office.

-   Pray for the Lord to encourage Max. The loss of so many material
    possessions at once is a significant blow. Also, I can tell in
    talking with him, that Max is very concerned about his wife, so
    please ask the Lord to heal her.

Blessings to you this week,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*Take Two is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
