Take Two -- May 7, 2017

Thank you so very much for your prayers!

Samuel will be going home on Wednesday. Bethaney found a flight with New
Tribes Mission that was going from Madang to Wewak virtually empty. They
agree to go to Wewak via Tamo and drop Samuel off. This is a great
relief for us and for Samuel. He should be able to get home to Yar
village in a few hours from the Tamo airstrip instead of in a couple of
days if he had had to go through Wewak. I know he wants to get home so
he can start on his garden.

Early this week the church at Yar lost one of its influential men. In
his younger years Ñepa Waiyang was sent by The Churches of Christ
Mission to an area on the Biwat River to teach people how to read and
write in the Tok Pisin language. The gospel was new to the area and
there were few Christians. The foundation of Ñepa's teaching was the New
Testament in Tok Pisin, since the goal was to enable people to read and
write well enough to use that New Testament.

Of course, you can't teach people to read the Bible without exposing
them to the content of the Bible. So, not too long after he arrived,
opposition to his teaching arose within the community and he was hauled
before a judge. The accusers had their say, railing on about the strange
talk Ñepa was teaching.

When they finished, the judge called Ñepa before him and asked him,
"Just what have you been teaching these people?" Ñepa reached in his
string bag and pulled out the New Testament, laying it in front of the
judge. He replied, "That is what I have been teaching and that is all."
The judge said to him, "Well then, carry on," and dismissed the case. In
Matt. 10:19-20 Jesus tells the disciples: "But when they arrest you, do
not worry about what to say or how to say it. At that time you will be
given what to say, for it will not be you speaking, but the Spirit of
your Father speaking through you." Ñepa lived that very experience.

And Ñepa's fingerprints are on the Waran New Testament too. He
participated in work sessions for some of the first books. He was the
primary language expert during the Consultant Check of Hebrews. The last
time I was in Yar village, we did the village checking of the book of
James. Over the course of 2 days the entire book was read aloud and
questions were asked to see if people were clearly understanding the
text. Ñepa was there. He shuffled along with a stick and had to be led
because he could no longer see, but there was nothing wrong with his
hearing. He participated fully in the checking, in many cases answering
better than those who had the written text before them.

I can only speak from external observations but I would say, "Well done,
good and faithful servant." May there be a host of like-minded and
equally committed Waran people who will follow in your footsteps. Enjoy
your restored sight as you take in the glories of eternity.

Prayer Point:

1.  Give thanks to God for providing a way for Samuel to return home.
    Pray that the flight will take place as scheduled. Ask God to
    provide him with good health and strength that he can accomplish all
    his garden work and work on his house that needs to get done during
    this time at home. May the burdens of these last five weeks and the
    strain of separation from his family fall away in no time!

2.  Give thanks to God for all that we have accomplished on the New
    Testament while we have worked together. Spelling is much more
    consistent, translation of certain key terms is much more
    consistent, and many small revisions have been made to improve the
    accuracy and flow of the text.

Once again, thank you for your prayer support. It means more than we can
ever adequately express.

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*Take Two is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
