Take Two - May 28, 2017

I was struggling to get a certain box out of the storage area. It was
heavy and hard to maneuver. Robin asked me, "How'd you move it before?"
I snapped right back, "I was a lot younger then!" It has been only six
years since those things went into storage but in that time tropical
sprue reduced me to a walking skeleton and tried to kill me. Also, my
work life has shifted to a lot more time spent in front of a computer
than out doing physical work. So the boxes have gotten heavier! That is
the first clue that we should be clearing out what we had in storage and
reducing our possessions by quite a bit. Soon we may not be able to.

Even though we knew it needed to be done, that didn't make it easier. A
few years ago Robin and I had a discussion about what might cause us to
leave the mission field. Would it be disappointment in our ministry to
the Waran people? Or conflicts with our missionary colleagues? Or just
what? We thought we could probably overcome any of those sorts of
things, but the one thing we thought might ultimately prove
insurmountable was the moving. As a missionary, one moves a lot. Even if
you are in one place while on the field, there is furlough. So you move
back to your home country for a few months or a year during which you
travel many times to visits supporters, family, and friends. Then you
move back overseas. You just always seem to be on the move.

For us, being in PNG has also involved moving, from town to the village
and back again, at least a few times every year. Fortunately, not all of
those are major moves and we have been more stable in recent years. But,
even so, the effect of all the packing, the moving, and the unpacking is
cumulative. This time we weren't preparing for a change of living
location but cleaning up from a hasty move made six years ago.  But it
was a lot like a move because the rats did leave some things alone and
those could be used by us or by our colleagues if we could just get them
back to Madang. So we did a lot of unpacking, repacking in boxes,
packing onto the truck and unpacking from the truck once we arrived back
in Madang. In between Ukarumpa and Madang was 170 miles of road, more
than half of which is gravel and full of potholes. By the time we were
back in Madang, we were sore, tired, and a little grumpy. We definitely
don't want to do that again.

I am not complaining about the moves or indicating that we are ready to
pack up for the last time here in PNG. (After all Jesus didn't even have
any place to call home and he moved around a lot!) I'm just saying that
not all of missionary life is about saving souls, reaching milestones,
or rejoicing in victories won. Sometimes there is some just plain old
living to do, and it's not always pretty.  

So at the end of this very tiring, and somewhat discouraging week, I
read a compelling article by PBT's President Greg Pruett that reminded
me why we are here. He tells of visiting a place where the majority of
people do not even know who Jesus is. In fact, they don't know whether a
Jesus is a who or a what. While I think it would be difficult to find a
Waran speaker who does not know who Jesus is, I know there are many for
whom that knowledge is just surface knowledge. They do not really
understand what it means to follow Jesus and be obedient to him. That
has to change. If we have to move 20 more times before that change takes
place, we will do it. Honestly, I pray that we don't have to but if we
do, God will give us the strength, somehow, some way.

I would encourage you to read President Pruett's article for yourself.
It is in PBT's publication, [The Latest Word, vol.
7](https://pioneerbible.org/thelatest/issues/the-latest-word-volume-7),
available online. A click on the link should get you there. The rest of
the magazine has more insightful and challenging articles as well. If
you have difficulty with the link, let us know and we'll find another
way to get the magazine to you.

Meanwhile, we are back to "normal" life. Robin is back at completing and
filing paperwork with the government to keep some more colleagues at
work in PNG. I am back to scrutinizing the Waran New Testament and
making notes about things that Samuel and I must work on during our next
session.

Prayer points:

-   Pray that we will recover from the trip and have sufficient energy
    to do what God wants us to do for him.

-   Continue to pray for Samuel while he is in the village. Pray that
    fellow Christians will rise up to help him in the critical tasks of
    gardening and housebuilding during this time.

-   On Wednesday May 31, please be praying for Gerald Denny.  He and his
    wife Ruth have served faithfully with PBT for many years.  Gerald
    will be having a pacemaker implanted on that day.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*Take Two is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
