*Friends, the following Take Two was written for May 14. However, on May
13 we traveled from Madang to the highlands of PNG. We expected to have
good internet service there but we did not. We also thought that our
list of Take Two recipients was on both computers. However, what was on
the computer we took with us was an old, incomplete list and not
useable. That is why you haven't received the Take Two for the last two
Sundays. We are back in Madang now so we are going to send this out now.
On Sunday we will get back on our normal schedule and fill you in on
what happened while we were out of Madang. -- sent out on May 27, 2017*

Take Two - May 14, 2017

Forty-one years ago today Robin and I were married at Mountain View
Church of Christ in Maryville, TN. What has followed has been 41 years
of perpetual marital bliss. Not really, but close enough. We have
fulfilled our vows to one another through the good and bad, the thick
and thin, the health and sickness, too. We can't imagine life with
anyone else.

Thirty-eight years ago we arrived in Papua New Guinea. It was just a few
days before our third anniversary. The ups and downs in those years have
been even greater than those of our marriage. But we have found joy in
the service and always knew we would get through the tough times. As we
stand on the brink of completing the Waran New Testament, it is much
easier to forget about the hard times and anticipate the joy that is to
come.

Six years ago we were living at Ukarumpa, in the central Highlands of
PNG, expecting to live there until the Waran New Testament was complete.
Ukarumpa offered a good place for the translation team to stay when they
came out of the villages and planes flew from there through Likan so
getting flights for the guys was not difficult. The team was very
productive in this environment. Robin was doing PBT government paperwork
and also helping a partner mission agency do theirs. Progress on the New
Testament was rapid and we were already starting to think about
completion. But like Philip who was called away from a revival in
Samaria to go meet a man on the Gaza Road, we were called away from work
in progress to Madang to handle PBT's finance work after the sudden
death of our finance manager. It was what God had for us to do at that
time and there is no regret on our part. But we did leave Ukarumpa
rather quickly, packing up as quickly as we could. At the time we
thought that after some months in Madang we would be coming back to
Ukarumpa to pick up the Waran work again. That never happened.

So after Samuel left on Wednesday, we decided we had better take a
little time to return to Ukarumpa and deal with the things in storage.
So yesterday (Saturday May 13) we drove up to Ukarumpa for that purpose.
Colleagues had told us that rats had been in the storage so we expected
the worst. It has been pretty bad so far but so far nothing of any great
value or significance has been lost. Having been in PNG when it was
almost impossible to get some things, we are more hoarders than tossers!
The rats have help us by making some decisions for us! In some ways it
is like a walk down memory lane. It isn't really exciting missionary
work, but we have been on the receiving end of having to clean up after
other missionaries have left unexpectedly or been unable to return. We'd
rather be the ones who have to deal with our accumulated "treasures." We
also hope to get some dental work done while here.

As far as Samuel is concerned, he left on Wednesday (May 10) as
expected. The outboard motor that has been in the workshop since
February was finally finished the afternoon before he left Madang so
Samuel took that with him. He was able to attach that to our aluminum
boat to drive himself home. He left Madang at 9:48 AM and was home by
2:07 PM. The boat is a lot faster than the canoe but, even so, he was
zipping right along. He was helped by a rain upriver overnight that
raised the water level so he didn't have to worry too much about stumps
and logs in the river. I also sent him off with a good supply of shear
pins, so he didn't have to worry too much if he did accidentally hit
something and shear a pin.

Prayer Points:

-   Please pray that Samuel can get the critical work on his garden and
    house completed during this time in the village. I was able to speak
    to Pastor Paul by phone and asked him to encourage the church to
    come alongside Samuel to help him. It would be a way for the whole
    church to honor Samuel's commitment to the translation work. Paul
    promised to try.

-   Pray for us as we sort and clean up. It is very hard for us to throw
    anything away that has value but we are aware that we see value in
    what others consider useless.

God Bless,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*Take Two is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
