Take Two - June 4, 2017

The Waran live in a very spiritual world. That's a good thing, right? If
someone told you that you were a spiritual person, you'd feel quite good
about yourself, wouldn't you? Yes. That's because in Christian
vocabulary, spiritual is a positive term, used almost exclusively to
refer to the Holy Spirit. For many Christians, the Holy Spirit is the
only spirit they think much about or know much about. We could have a
long discussion about whether that is a good thing or a bad thing, but
since my point lies elsewhere, let's skip the discussion for now.

The Waran live in a very spiritual world. They always have. The spirits
were among them from ancestral times, filling their hearts with fear and
their lives with danger. I searched for a good spirit among them and
found one, only one. The men described a spirit who would appear and
befriend a man, help him find a pig when he went hunting, help him be
successful in gardening or whatever he was doing. And I thought, "This
is great. At least, there was one good spirit among all the bad ones."
Stupid me! The men's story went on. After helping the man for a while,
beguiling him to trust, the spirit would turn on him and kill him. Oops,
cross that one off the list.  In this whole host of spirits that
inhabited the physical world around the Waran, not a single good,
beneficent spirit existed. They were universally beings to be feared and
appeased. Waran life was walking carefully amongst these spirits trying
not to offend one of them or even attract their attention, because if
you did, that was very bad for you or someone you cared about.

When the gospel broke forth among the Waran, many accepted this good
news that spoke of a God who was the most powerful being in the
universe. And many recognized that they had done things that were wrong
and that they needed forgiveness, which Jesus had provided. But they
still lived in a world that they perceived as being controlled by the
spirits. So for a while the Waran tried to walk in two worlds at the
same time, worship God and Jesus but appease the spirits. They made
decisions based not solely on what the Bible said but also on
traditional, keep-the-spirits-happy, wisdom. If someone is sick, pray
for them but also consult with a sorcerer who can tell you which spirit
has bene offended and what to do to appease him. No Christian can really
live that way. God is a jealous God who wants his people all for
himself.

Enter the Holy Spirit, the face of God most like what the Waran had been
dealing with for lifetimes, a spirit. He had been there all along, a
part of the gospel teaching about God from the beginning, just like he
had been there in the Old Testament and throughout the earthly ministry
of Jesus. But then he came out of the background and the Waran people
realized God's Spirit was who they needed to know how to slay the power
of the other spirits. At last, here was a GOOD Spirit. At last, the
Waran people were able to break out of the paralyzing fear that had
controlled them, to leave the two-faced life they had followed since
conversion, to live free in Christ. God's Spirit could not only teach
them to live in victory over the spirits around them but could also
reveal more of God to them and testify of Christ the Savior.

Today we celebrate the coming of the Holy Spirit at Pentecost. Praise
God that he revealed himself in this way and gave us this companion to
walk with us through life, to comfort, to encourage, to guide, to
challenge, and to protect. Praise God that his Spirit is there for the
Waran and the many other animistic peoples of the world, to be the good
spirit, the Holy Spirit, to stand with them in an unholy world inhabited
by evil spirits, to comfort them in their fears, to encourage them to
choose truth over deception, to guide them in the ways of the Lord, to
challenge the ancient habits of thinking, and to protect them from the
evil one and his minions. Thank you, Holy Spirit.

1.  Pray for the Waran people that, through the Holy Spirit, they will
    remain firmly connected to God and His son, Jesus Christ. Even now,
    the old ways are far to close at hand and some choose to believe the
    lie. May God continue to draw them to himself and to victorious
    living through Christ.

2.  Praise God for the arrival of the Mborena Kam New Testaments in
    Madang. The Mborena Kam team overcame many struggles to get this
    book ready for publication, but they persisted and now the books are
    safely here in Madang. The dedication is coming up in July (after
    the national elections are over). Pray for the Mborena Kam people as
    they prepare physically and spiritually for the Dedication Day.

Gerald Denny's pacemaker implant procedure went very well.  Thanks for
your prayers! 

Follow up on Matt Dodd: Months ago, we asked you to pray for a fellow
missionary with brain tumors. On a recent scan of his brain, the doctors
could not detect any of the 11 tumors that had previously been there.
Praise God for that! But Matt's trials are not yet over. Now he is
experiencing uncontrollable pain in his abdominal region. The cause is
yet unknown. Matt and his wife maintain their strong testimony:
"Whatever God is doing, we are okay with it." We know they'd appreciate
your prayers.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*Take Two is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
