Take Two - July 30, 2017

This has been a week of mountaintop experiences that fuel our memories
and encourage us when we are walking in the valley. On Wednesday, the
Mbore people scattered along the lower reaches of the Ramu River
received the New Testament in their language! Praise God for the
tenacity of the Mbore translation team who persevered through setback
after setback until they brought the project to completion. Praise God
for the many PBT workers who came alongside the Mbore to facilitate,
assist, and encourage them through the years. We were all privileged to
be there to rejoice with the Mbore people that God's message for them
could now be clearly heard!

For us to be there, we all had to first get there! Bethaney and the
interns started their journey in Yar village at 3 AM last Sunday. I
started from Wewak at 3:30 AM. We all met on the banks of the Sepik
River in Angoram. Together we left Angoram for the 3-hour trip to
Tambapmining. Down the Sepik to near the mouth, along a narrow channel
(shortcut) through a sago swamp, across Watam Lake, though the open
ocean to the mouth of the Ramu River, then a short distance upriver and
we arrived at Tambapmining. Crossing the surf in a 25-foot open boat is
not for the faint-hearted and we had to do it twice in half an hour!
Thank you, Jesus!

Monday morning Bethaney and I drove to Madang to position the vehicle
and ourselves as drivers fro Tuesday's trip.

Tuesday morning all the PBT members in Madang, all PBT employees, and
several international guests loaded into 5 vehicles and started to
Tambapmining. One of the vehicles was a large flat-bed truck with wooden
seats installed so we had to go slower to the passengers didn't get
completely beat up by bouncing on the very rough road with many
potholes. After six hours, Bethaney's vehicle, along with the Nolands,
split off from us and went to Tiap in the Aruamu language group to spend
the night where there was a house to sleep in. The rest of us continued
our trip, arriving safely just before dark, 8 hours after we began.

Wednesday in Tambapmining began in the pitch black of 5 AM when the big
wooden drum sounded to rouse everyone. Maybe the drum was just for the
visitors because I don't think many of the Tambapmining folks even slept
that night. Food was being cooked through the night and everyone
scurried around to make sure everything was as perfect as possible for
the coming day.

Meanwhile, Bethaney and those with here had been on the road since about
4:15. Bethaney's vehicle was carrying the New Testaments. At 7:00 AM she
arrived at the start of the procession line and delivered the New
Testaments to those who would be carrying them in the procession. The
highly decorated group leading the first part of the procession sang and
danced in the traditional singsing style but their words were anything
but traditional. In the Mborena Kam language they sang, "We are bringing
the God's Word to you \_\_\_\_\_" and would fill in the blank with the
name of a village, or a leader, or other key person.

After a half-mile, they passed on the New Testaments to the second
group, ladies from the Catholic villages dressed in their white tops,
waving coconut fronds and singing Christian songs as the marched along.

The final group consisted of members from the Seventh Day Adventist part
of the language group. Those who carried the New Testaments were decked
out in white robes and headdresses, which seemed to add a sense of
gravity to their procession. They were followed bay all the members of
the first and second processional groups as well as many others who had
joined along the way. Their journey ended when they placed the New
Testaments before the platform in the meeting area where the formal
program would be held.

**Some Highlights from the day:**

Faye and Janice Rostvit, who traveled around the world for many years in
a unique singing ministry and who had visited Tambapmining years ago,
sang a song they had composed using Mborena Kam verses from John. When
they began, it was as if a powerful magnet had been flipped on. People
came from everywhere and crowded around the platform to hear the song in
their language. At various points through the song, there were outbursts
from the crowd as they received the message with joy. What a blessing
for the people!

One hundred copies of the audio recordings of the entire Mborena Kam New
Testament on SD cards were prepared for the day. People can put them in
their phones so they have Scripture to listen to wherever they go or put
them into boom boxes to reach larger crowds. In this way, even those who
can't read or read well can still receive God's Word. Ninety-nine of the
100 were sold that day!

More than 50 copies of the New Testament were also sold that first
afternoon.

Translators from 5 other language groups where PBT works travelled to
share the day with the Mborena Kam team. These guys have spent countless
hours together as they have stayed together in PBT's National Coworker
Housing while doing language work in Madang. The camaraderie and mutual
support among them is a beautiful thing to see. Samuel, Konamby and 5
other Waran men attended, in part to get ideas about what a dedication
might look like for the Waran.

The heavy overcast and light drizzle of the day did nothing to dampen
the Mbore enthusiasm and did not interfere with the planned program. In
fact, it cooled things down a bit.

**Quote of the Day: Reading the Bible in Tok Pisin (the trade language)
is like reading in black and white. But when I read it in Mborena Kam, I
see all the colors.**

All too soon it was time for us to leave and get everyone back to
Madang. The drizzle had made the surface of the road slippery,
especially around the big potholes that had been wallowed out. Twice the
big truck got stuck and had to be pulled out. Fortunately, that was only
a problem for the first couple of hours of the trip. After that, the
roads were dry but still just as rough as they had been on the way out!
We made it back to Madang at 12:15 AM, glad for the experiences of the
day but glad to be off the road and home again.

Personally, reflecting on the day just makes me hungry. Hungry for the
day when the Waran people will have their celebration and Waran New
Testaments in their hands. Soon, Lord!

Prayer Points:

-   Pray that the Mbore people will embrace God's Word with all their
    hearts and be transformed by it.

-   Robin has been experiencing pain in her back. It seems to be
    improving slowly but still has a ways to go to be pain free.

Updates:

My leg is still improving but hasn't completely healed yet.

I have posted some other details of the week and some pictures on
Facebook. If you press CTRL and click on this link you should get to my
page, whether you have a Facebook account or not: [Facebook page:
William P
Butler](https://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=100014787813312)

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*Take Two is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
