Take Two -- 23 July 2017

By Wednesday, the incision on my leg had completely sealed off and
scabbed over. At that point the doctor said I was free to travel.

There was no longer any time to go to the village but I decided to fly
to Wewak on Friday. From there I could travel overland to Angoram and
join up with Bethaney and the interns as they travel by river down from
Likan. Then we could travel together down the Sepik River to near the
mouth, then through some inland waterways along the coast until we came
of to the ocean, then along the coast to the mouth of the Ramu River,
and finally up the Ramu River to the village of Tambapmining. That\'s
where the celebration and dedication of the Mborena Kam New Testament
will be held on Wednesday.

Lord willing, by the time you read this, we will have completed the trip
and all be safely in Tambapmining.

On Monday morning Bethaney and I will drive the PBT Landcruiser back to
Madang. It was driven out to Tambapmining on Saturday by PBT\'s advance
team to bring out the first load of supplies. We will spend the night in
Madang. Then Tuesday, each of us will drive a vehicle in the convoy back
to Tambapmining with the International guests and PBT employees who will
attend the dedication. We will also be transporting precious cargo\--the
Mborena Kam New Testaments!

Then after the completion of the dedication program on Wednesday, almost
all of us will be travelling back to Madang. At least part of that trip
will be after dark and I\'m sure we will all be tired.

This promises to be a week of joy. We will see many former colleagues
and visitors who have come back for the dedication. Such reunions are
always sweet. But nothing will match the joy of celebrating the launch
of the Mborena Kam New Testament!

Prayer points

-   Pray for safety on all of our many travels this week.

-   Pray the Mborena Kam people will embrace the Word of God in their
    language. May God speak clearly to them with power and majesty.

Thank you for standing with us in prayer.

Blessings,

William and Robin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*Take Two is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
