**Take Two -- August 6, 2017**

**William and Robin Butler**

As this week progressed we said goodbye to almost all of our special
guests who had come for the Mborena Kam dedication. Many of those guests
had been here before as co-workers or frequent visitors, so we enjoyed
the reunion/homecoming aspect of this visit, but it made it really hard
to say goodbye again.

We also said goodbye to the two summer interns and their coach. We pray
that their experiences while with us this summer have inspired them and
opened their eyes to how God can use them in his mission to reach the
world. As they return home, may the memories of this summer continue to
challenge them to be open to God's call.

At the dedication, Samuel told me that he had about two more weeks of
work at home then he'd be able to come back for another work session.
After the time away for the dedication, I have been back at work
preparing for that session. At this point, we need to be very efficient
in our time together. We don't yet have a clear path for Samuel to get
to town but we are working on it.

This week Bethaney and I will be making a trip to Ukarumpa to follow up
on dental work we began in May. If there aren't any unexpected
complications we will go up on Wednesday, see the dentist on Thursday,
and return on Friday.

Realized Prayer Outcomes:

Robin's back has improved to the point that she is able to drive again.
She is visiting with my family in Tennessee this weekend.

The PNG national elections have concluded and a new government has
formed. There was some violence associated with very close elections
where there were disputes about the vote counting or the results, but
overall the election period was pretty peaceful.

My leg is clearly progressing in the healing process but there is still
a ways to go yet.

**Take Two Prayer Points:**

-   Pray that we will be able to find a good, safe route for Samuel to
    get into Madang.

-   Pray for Bethaney and I as we travel to Ukarumpa and back. The road
    is not in good shape so there will be a lot more bouncing around.

BIG APOLOGY:

If you followed the link to my Facebook page last week, you probably saw
nothing at all about the Mborena Kam dedication. When I originally
posted, I didn't realize that only my Facebook friends could see those
postings. I discovered that about mid-week and fixed the problem. Now
anyone, even those who don't normally participate in Facebook, can see
the pictures and messages. Here's the link again: [Facebook page:
William P
Butler](https://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=100014787813312)

Blessings,

William and Robin Butler
