Take Two -- August 20, 2017

Saying I saw this week: **You go where you are sent and stay where you
are put and you give what you've got. -- Jill Briscoe**

If I didn't believe and practice that, this would be the week to leave.

There is no way around it---this has been a disappointing week. Despite
multiple attempts to contact anyone I thought might be helpful in
getting communication to Samuel, no one responded and Samuel didn't get
the word. That was just as well because MAF cancelled Friday's flight.

MAF rescheduled the flight for Wednesday this week and my attempts at
communication with the new information began all over again. New
message, but same results. No one is responding. No one from Likan has
called either Bethaney or I this week either. They can still get access
to the network by climbing a nearby mountain and could travel downriver
to deliver the message to Samuel. But they only call when they have
something they need us to do or there is some major village event and
that hasn't happen this week. So now, three days before the flight,
Samuel still doesn't know about the flight. We need a divine
intervention!

Given that the network is perpetually out and the company doesn't seem
to be doing anything to remedy the situation, I am seriously thinking
that it is time to buy a satellite phone so Samuel and I can have
regular communication. (A satellite phone makes a direct connection to a
satellite in geosynchronous orbit, so isn't dependent on any terrestrial
network.) This is starting to seem essential for us to be able to
complete the New Testament. So far this is just in the realm of
dreaming. Our office internet hasn't been working well enough for me to
investigate the cost to see if it is even feasible.

**Prayer Points:**

1.  Please pray that somehow the message will get through to Samuel and
    he will be able to make it to Likan in time for the flight.

2.  Pray that I will know what is the right thing to do about a
    satellite phone.

Blessings,

William and Robin Butler

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*Take Two is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
