**Take Two - August 27, 2017**

On Friday afternoon the Director of Language Affairs, who is responsible
for overseeing all PBTPNG's language work, stopped by my desk and asked
me, "Do you have a minute? There's something in my office I'd like to
show you."

Once in his office, he explained that he had just updated the Waran
project in Paratext on his computer, something that he hadn't done for a
few months. When a project is updated in Paratext, the program reports
every change that has been made since the last update. He directed my
attention to his computer screen as he scrolled through page after page
after page of changes -- literally hundreds of changes that Samuel and I
have made to the Waran text in recent months.

I was amazed. Since I do very frequent updates, I see the changes in
short lists that cover one or two days of work. But I don't see the
cumulative effect of our work. I appreciate very much that the Director
thought to let me see that list. It was very encouraging to see that we
are making progress.

I reckon there is never a bad time for encouragement, but that was an
exceptionally good time for it. You see, Samuel didn't make the flight
on Wednesday. A flight for someone else took the plane to Likan again on
Friday and there was space for Samuel to come into town but he didn't
make that flight either. While it was disappointing, I didn't feel
discouraged. That battle is over. While I won't give up trying to
contact him, I trust that God will bring Samuel to town in His own time.
In the meantime, I'll keep making the corrections I can and putting
everything else on a list for Samuel.

I am, however, concerned about Samuel and his family. We've worked
together for a long time and this isn't like Samuel at all. I suspect
there is something going on in either his family or in the village that
makes him feel like he just can't leave right now. I can think of a lot
of scenarios that might interfere but I can't go beyond that. We just
have to leave them in the Lord's hands.

Prayer Points:

-   Pray for Samuel, his family, and the village. We might not know what
    the situation is but God does. We trust Him that he will work out
    whatever is in a way that will be for His own glory.

-   Pray for Anita Yamok. Her husband Steven is the principal of the
    Gandep Bible College, the training school for Churches of Christ
    pastors and church workers. Steven is currently finishing up work on
    an advanced degree at Christian Leaders Training College in the PNG
    Highlands. Anita is sick with episodes of high fever and abdominal
    pains of unknown origin. They are currently at the Nazarene Mission
    Hospital trying to find the cause. Pray that Anita will have relief
    from the pain and the doctors will be able to isolate and treat the
    root cause. (Steven and Anita are both Waran speakers from Yar
    Village, same as Samuel. Anita is the sister of Max Kamgru, Waran
    literacy worker.)

Blessings,

William and Robin Butler

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
