Take Two - September 24, 2017

William & Robin Butler

Samuel and I made good progress on reviewing the book of Philippians
this week. It was one of the first epistles that we translated so we
definitely wanted to review it carefully. We have made several changes
but we haven\'t had any of those, "We said WHAT?" moments so far. This
book has been widely available since 2004 and no one has pointed out
anything so I think were okay there.

On Friday we sent Samuel's brother Morex back to the village. We armed
him with plenty of bandaging materials and antiseptic cream to help in
his battle against the pressure sores. We feel like being more proactive
in providing supplies like that may encourage him to take better care of
himself and avoid trips to the hospital, especially when he can't get
too much help there.

This week will be more of the same for Samuel and I. In fact, we're
going to have a lot of weeks of very similar activity---long days with
tedious tasks followed by short nights.

Robin has been working on preparing renewal applications for people to
sign. One family will be returning to their village location and another
will be leaving country soon. Even though processed paperwork isn't
currently coming out of the government office, renewals still have to be
submitted at the designated time. When the time is right for these
folks, they won't be in town to sign so it must be done now.

If we don't have rain this week, Bethaney will be making another journey
to pick up a translator from the village. Much of the road will be the
same as the journey she and I took two weeks ago, but the last part will
be completely new road to her. The translator normally comes part way by
motor canoe but the river is too low to do that right now. So the
translator will walk to the closest point that the road comes to the
village and Bethaney will make the pick-up there. That is Plan A but
these trips have a way of quickly going to alternate plans!

Prayer Points:

-   Pray for alertness and stamina for Samuel and I as we work. Pray
    that we will be efficient and meticulous in all our work.

-   Pray that the approval of necessary paperwork for people entering
    PNG will move faster.

-   Pray for Bethaney as she makes the trip, probably on Thursday. An
    uneventful trip would be nice for a change and would help her old
    parents remain calm!

Blessings,

William and Robin Butler

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

***Take Two** is distributed by William and Robin Butler, serving with
Pioneer Bible Translators in Papua New Guinea. To contact us, or to
change or to remove your address from this list, write to
<wbutler@pioneerbible.org.pg>. To partner financially in our ministry,
checks payable to Pioneer Bible Translators may be sent to our
forwarding agents Gary and Barbara True, 702 Creel Ave., Louisville, KY
40208.   If you're interested in giving by credit/debit card or
electronic funds transfer, you can do so at
[https://pioneerbible.org/give/WilliamandRobinButler](https://pioneerbible.org/give/williamandrobinbutler)
or you can contact us for details.*
