[**Completion of Consultant Checking of the Waran New
Testament**](https://www.facebook.com/100014787813312/posts/176298509539742/)

[February 28, 2017 at Madang, Papua New
Guinea](https://www.facebook.com/100014787813312/posts/176298509539742/)

Facebook Post by William P. Butler

The consultant check of the Waran New Testament is complete!! Join us in
Praise to God!

After 20\* years, 7 consultants and 22+ Waran speakers who served as
language experts during the checking sessions, we have reached the last
verse. One Waran man, lead translator Samuel Sangon (pictured below),
has been involved in every checking session. Pastor Konamby has been
present for 19 books. \[\* Twenty years between the first consultant
check and the last.\]

In addition, an uncounted number of Pioneer Bible Translators teammates
supported us in so many ways. Then there is the innumerable host of
those who gave and prayed so that somehow, some way, some day we might
reach this point. Today is that day!

Today we give thanks to the One who was with us through it all---the
good, the ugly, the heartbreak, the discouragement, the
victories---guiding our vision and spurring us on. \'Therefore, since
through God\'s mercy we have this ministry, we do not lose heart\....
But we have this treasure in jars of clay to show that this
all-surpassing power is from God and not from us \-- 2 Cor 4:1,7. Thank
you, Jesus!

And I thank God for my wife who has been beside me the whole way, except
when she stepped back to give me a swift kick to keep me going! God
knows I needed that sometimes. Thank you God for such a strong, and, not
to mention, beautiful companion.

![](media/image1.jpg){width="6.268055555555556in"
height="4.338888888888889in"}

**Waran Translator, Samuel Sangon, at the completion of Waran New
Testament checking**

![](media/image2.jpg){width="6.678225065616798in"
height="4.365972222222222in"}

**The Waran team pauses to thank God at the completion of consultant
checking of the New Testament**

![C:\\Users\\mtnbo\\AppData\\Local\\Microsoft\\Windows\\INetCacheContent.Word\\IMG_3746
resize3.jpg](media/image3.jpeg){width="6.678472222222222in"
height="4.536421697287839in"}
