---

title: August 13, 2017
date: 2017-08-13
author: William Butler

---

Bethaney and I made the trip to Ukarumpa for our dental work. The trip took
only 5 hours because a significant amount of work had been done on the part
of the road that runs through the Ramu River valley. It was nice to be able
to travel several miles a bit faster without worrying about hitting a
bone-crunching pothole. Still making that trip twice in three days takes a
lot out of you.



## Prayer Points

1. The MAF pilot based in Madang has returned from furlough and we thank
God for that. We have a flight booked for Friday, August 18, to take
patients back to Likan and bring Samuel to Madang. The mobile network is
still not working out that way so getting the message to Samuel so that he
knows to go to Likan for the flight is going to be difficult. I have sent
texts to all the Waran numbers I have in hopes that someone will get the
message and pass it to Samuel. Please pray that somehow the message will
get through.
1. In 2007-2008 the Huisingh (high-zing) family was part of PBT, with
Gregg and Sharon serving as teachers at Ukarumpa. We lived in the same
triplex with them and became very good friends. This week we earned that
learned that their 23-year-old son Caleb died in a hiking accident. It was
a real kick-in-the-gut moment. We cannot imagine the agony they are going
through. Please lift up to the Lord Gregg and Sharon and their daughters
Kristina and Erin. May the Lord comfort them and give them peace. May all
those that Caleb touched in his short life be inspired by the way he lived
and the example he set.
